Some randomly generated Trump tweets:

Now Obama claims he never would have won the battleground states.

That wasn’t the White House; Senate need more Republicans in the U.S. - Mexico border.

The Democrats continue to follow me on the upcoming Election.

I have full confidence in MY intelligence people.

My son @EricTrump is doing great!



For botnik predictive text, i uploaded my reflection essay for this class. Here's what I got:

 In this class i would have no problems working with online learning during the pandemic. This semester made sense and i didn't even remember it. Of the material in this class i was completely familiar with python and if there isn't a meaningful difference between working and thinking there is someone there being not productive. Eventually the redundancies and inefficiencies in this class made me break out of my general feeling of ambiguity.
 
 
 
 I used botnik to make half-baked political death metal lyrics. I uploaded a text file cotaining the lyrics to 5 different albums from different bands. Here is what I got:
 
 
 

 The masses make machines fabricating the end of days, choosing garbage forged by scripture.
 A chance to reach the end of all inhabitants of the land of the grotesque.
 Together malignant people stand breathing pollution and slaving with every ounce of human life. 
 If man cannot change the world now, all life will soon be over. 
 
 Come forth anxious people and run morality into the trash and every human living  will be choking on their greed. 
 The prophets of death relish in the world of overpopulation and total annihilation.
 If we do not care if man can control death, every one of us are dead. 
 Nothing could be so insane as to make these shameless people form the future failure of all humans. 
 
 If times of war don't need death,  every system tied to this world will fall apart. 
 Malignant dreams of better times have turned slaves of this world to rot. 
 We suffocate ourselves everyday listening to the demands of wealth. 
 Pollution and future failures will destroy every membrane of the masses of human life.
 
 What we do, what we understand, worthless waste of life and earth. 
 The elite follow without question this newfound love for blood and slavery. 
 Dead flesh of human life is violence and a war of filth beyond consequence and paradigm. 
 What you've done within this life is a short devotion to annihilation and eradication of all humanity. 