Dedication

Cont

Part I: Hope
Chapter 1: The Uncomfortable Truth
Chapter 2: Self-Control Is an Illusion
Chapter 3: Newton’s Laws of Emotion
Chapter 4: How to Make All Your Dreams Come True
Chapter 5: Hope Is Fucked

Part II: Everything Is Fucked
Chapter 6: The Formula of Humanity
Chapter 7: Pain Is the Universal Constant
Chapter 8: The Feelings Economy
Chapter 9: The Final Religion
Acknowledgments
Notes
About the Author
Also by Mark Manson
Copyright
About the Publisher

Part I:

Hope

Chapter 1

The Uncomfortable Truth
On a small plot of land in the monotonous countryside of central Europe, amid the warehouses of
a former military barracks, a nexus of geographically concentrated evil would arise, denser and
darker than anything the world had ever seen. Over the span of four years, more than 1.3 million
people would be systematically sorted, enslaved, tortured, and murdered here, and it would all
happen in an area slightly larger than Central Park in Manhattan. And no one would do anything
to stop it.
Except for one man.
It is the stuff of fairy tales and comic books: a hero marches headlong into the fiery jaws of
hell to confront some great manifestation of evil. The odds are impossible. The rationale is
laughable. Yet our fantastical hero never hesitates, never flinches. He stands tall and slays the
dragon, crushes the demon invaders, saves the planet and maybe even a princess or two.
And for a brief time, there is hope.
But this is not a story of hope. This is a story of everything being completely and utterly
fucked. Fucked in proportions and on scales that today, with the comfort of our free Wi-Fi and
oversize Snuggie blankets, you and I can hardly imagine.
Witold Pilecki was already a war hero before he decided to sneak into Auschwitz. As a young
man, Pilecki had been a decorated officer in the Polish-Soviet War of 1918. He had kicked the
Communists in the nuts before most people even knew what a pinko Commie bastard was. After
the war, Pilecki moved to the Polish countryside, married a schoolteacher, and had two kids. He
enjoyed riding horses and wearing fancy hats and smoking cigars. Life was simple and good.
Then that whole Hitler thing happened, and before Poland could get both its boots on, the
Nazis had already Blitzkrieged through half the country. Poland lost its entire territory in a little
more than a month. It wasn’t exactly a fair fight: while the Nazis invaded in the west, the Soviets
invaded in the east. It was like being stuck between a rock and a hard place—except the rock was
a megalomaniacal mass murderer trying to conquer the world and the hard place was rampant,
senseless genocide. I’m still not sure which was which.
Early on, the Soviets were actually far crueler than the Nazis. They had done this shit before,
you know—the whole “overthrow a government and enslave a population to your faulty
ideology” thing. The Nazis were still somewhat imperialist virgins (which, when you look at
pictures of Hitler’s mustache, isn’t hard to imagine). In those first months of the war, it’s
estimated that the Soviets rounded up over a million Polish citizens and sent them east. Think
about that for a second. A million people, in a matter of months, just gone. Some didn’t stop until
they hit the gulags in Siberia; others were found in mass graves decades later. Many are still
unaccounted for to this day.
Pilecki fought in those battles—against both the Germans and the Soviets. And after their
defeat, he and fellow Polish officers started an underground resistance group in Warsaw. They
called themselves the Secret Polish Army.

In the spring of 1940, the Secret Polish Army got wind of the fact that the Germans were
building a massive prison complex outside some backwater town in the southern part of the
country. The Germans named this new prison complex Auschwitz. By the summer of 1940,
thousands of military officers and leading Polish nationals were disappearing from western
Poland. Fears arose among the resistance that the same mass incarceration that had occurred in
the east with the Soviets was now on the menu in the west. Pilecki and his crew suspected that
Auschwitz, a prison the size of a small town, was likely involved in the disappearances and that
it might already house thousands of former Polish soldiers.
That’s when Pilecki volunteered to sneak into Auschwitz. Initially, it was a rescue mission—
he would allow himself to get arrested, and once there, he would organize with other Polish
soldiers, coordinate a mutiny, and break out of the prison camp.
It was a mission so suicidal that he might as well have asked his commander permission to
drink a bucket of bleach. His superiors thought he was crazy, and told him as much.
But, as the weeks went by, the problem only grew worse: thousands of elite Poles were
disappearing, and Auschwitz was still a huge blind spot in the Allied intelligence network. The
Allies had no idea what was going on there and little chance of finding out. Eventually, Pilecki’s
commanders relented. One evening, at a routine checkpoint in Warsaw, Pilecki let himself be
arrested by the SS for violating curfew. And soon, he was on his way to Auschwitz, the only man
known ever to have voluntarily entered a Nazi concentration camp.
Once he got there, he saw that the reality of Auschwitz was far worse than anyone had
suspected. Prisoners were routinely shot in roll call lineups for transgressions as minor as
fidgeting or not standing up straight. The manual labor was grueling and endless. Men were
literally worked to death, often performing tasks that were useless or meant nothing. The first
month Pilecki was there, a full third of the men in his barracks died of exhaustion or pneumonia
or were shot. Regardless, by the end of the 1940, Pilecki, the comic book superhero
motherfucker, had still somehow set up an espionage operation.
Oh, Pilecki—you titan, you champion, flying above the abyss—how did you manage to
create an intelligence network by embedding messages in laundry baskets? How did you build
your own transistor radio out of spare parts and stolen batteries, MacGyver-style, and then
successfully transmit plans for an attack on the prison camp to the Secret Polish Army in
Warsaw? How did you create smuggling rings to bring in food, medicine, and clothing for
prisoners, saving countless lives and delivering hope to the remotest desert of the human heart?
What did this world do to deserve you?
Over the course of two years, Pilecki built an entire resistance unit within Auschwitz. There
was a chain of command, with ranks and officers; a logistics network; and lines of
communication to the outside world. And all this went undiscovered by the SS guards for almost
two years. Pilecki’s ultimate aim was to foment a full-scale revolt within the camp. With help
and coordination from the outside, he believed he could stoke a prison break, overrun the
undermanned SS guards, and release tens of thousands of highly trained Polish guerrilla fighters
into the wild. He sent his plans and reports to Warsaw. For months, he waited. For months, he
survived.
But then came the Jews. First, in buses. Then, packed in train cars. Soon, they were arriving by
the tens of thousands, an undulating current of people floating in an ocean of death and despair.
Stripped of all family possessions and dignity, they filed mechanically into the newly renovated
“shower” barracks, where they were gassed and their bodies burned.
Pilecki’s reports to the outside became frantic. They’re murdering tens of thousands of

people here each day. Mostly Jews. The death toll could potentially be in the millions. He
pleaded with the Secret Polish Army to liberate the camp at once. He said if you can’t liberate
the camp, then at least bomb it. For God’s sake, at least destroy the gas chambers. At least.
The Secret Polish Army received his messages but figured he was exaggerating. In the
farthest reaches of their minds, nothing could be that fucked. Nothing.
Pilecki was the first person ever to alert the world to the Holocaust. His intelligence was
forwarded through the various resistance groups around Poland, then on to the Polish
government-in-exile in the United Kingdom, who then passed his reports to the Allied Command
in London. The information eventually even made its way to Eisenhower and Churchill.
They, too, figured Pilecki had to be exaggerating.
In 1943, Pilecki realized that his plans of a mutiny and prison break were never going to
happen: The Secret Polish Army wasn’t coming. The Americans and British weren’t coming.
And in all likelihood, it was the Soviets who were coming—and they would be worse. Pilecki
decided that remaining inside the camp was too risky. It was time to escape.
He made it look easy, of course. First, he faked illness and got himself admitted to the
camp’s hospital. From there, he lied to the doctors about what work group he was supposed to
return to, saying he had the night shift at the bakery, which was on the edge of camp, near the
river. When the doctors discharged him, he headed to the bakery, where he proceeded to “work”
until 2:00 a.m., when the last batch of bread finished baking. From there, it was just a matter of
cutting the telephone wire, silently prying open the back door, changing into stolen civilian
clothes without the SS guards noticing, sprinting to the river a mile away while being shot at, and
then navigating his way back to civilization via the stars.
Today, much in our world appears to be fucked. Not Nazi Holocaust–level fucked (not even
close), but still, pretty fucked nonetheless.
Stories such as Pilecki’s inspire us. They give us hope. They make us say, “Well, damn,
things were way worse then, and that guy transcended it all. What have I done lately?”—which,
in this couch-potato-pundit era of tweetstorms and outrage porn is probably what we should be
asking ourselves. When we zoom out and get perspective, we realize that while heroes like
Pilecki save the world, we swat at gnats and complain that the AC isn’t high enough.
Pilecki’s story is the single most heroic thing I’ve ever come across in my life. Because
heroism isn’t just bravery or guts or shrewd maneuvering. These things are common and are
often used in unheroic ways. No, being heroic is the ability to conjure hope where there is none.
To strike a match to light up the void. To show us a possibility for a better world—not a better
world we want to exist, but a better world we didn’t know could exist. To take a situation where
everything seems to be absolutely fucked and still somehow make it good.
Bravery is common. Resilience is common. But heroism has a philosophical component to it.
There’s some great “Why?” that heroes bring to the table—some incredible cause or belief that
goes unshaken, no matter what. And this is why, as a culture, we are so desperate for a hero
today: not because things are necessarily so bad, but because we’ve lost the clear “Why?” that
drove previous generations.
We are a culture in need not of peace or prosperity or new hood ornaments for our electric
cars. We have all that. We are a culture in need of something far more precarious. We are a
culture and a people in need of hope.
After witnessing years of war, torture, death, and genocide, Pilecki never lost hope. Despite
losing his country, his family, his friends, and nearly his own life, he never lost hope. Even after

the war, while enduring Soviet domination, he never lost the hope of a free and independent
Poland. He never lost the hope of a quiet and happy life for his children. He never lost the hope
of being able to save a few more lives, of helping a few more people.
After the war, Pilecki returned to Warsaw and continued spying, this time on the Communist
Party, which had just come to power there. Again, he would be the first person to notify the West
of an ongoing evil, in this case that the Soviets had infiltrated the Polish government and rigged
its elections. He would also be the first to document the Soviet atrocities committed in the east
during the war.
This time, though, he was discovered. He was warned that he was about to be arrested, and
he had a chance to flee to Italy. Yet, Pilecki declined—he would rather stay and die Polish than
run and live as something he didn’t recognize. A free and independent Poland, by then, was his
only source of hope. Without it, he was nothing.
And thus, his hope would also be his undoing. The Communists captured Pilecki in 1947,
and they didn’t go easy on him. He was tortured for almost a year, so harshly and consistently
that he told his wife that “Auschwitz was just a trifle” by comparison.
Still, he never cooperated with his interrogators.
Eventually, realizing they could get no information from him, the Communists decided to
make an example of him. In 1948, they held a show trial and charged Pilecki with everything
from falsifying documents and violating curfew to engaging in espionage and treason. A month
later, he was found guilty and sentenced to death. On the final day of the trial, Pilecki was
allowed to speak. He stated that his allegiance had always been to Poland and its people, that he
had never harmed or betrayed any Polish citizen, and that he regretted nothing. He concluded his
statement with “I have tried to live my life such that in the hour of my death I would feel joy
rather than fear.”
And if that’s not the most hardcore thing you’ve ever heard, then I want some of what you’re
having.

How May I Help You?
If I worked at Starbucks, instead of writing people’s names on their coffee cup, I’d write the
following:
One day, you and everyone you love will die. And beyond a small group of people for an extremely brief period of time, little
of what you say or do will ever matter. This is the Uncomfortable Truth of life. And everything you think or do is but an
elaborate avoidance of it. We are inconsequential cosmic dust, bumping and milling about on a tiny blue speck. We imagine
our own importance. We invent our purpose—we are nothing.
Enjoy your fucking coffee.

I’d have to write it in really tiny lettering, of course. And it’d take a while to write, meaning
the line of morning rush-hour customers would be backed out the door. Not exactly stellar
customer service, either. This is probably just one of the reasons why I’m not employable.
But seriously, how could you tell someone, in good conscience, to “have a nice day” while
knowing that all their thoughts and motivations stem from a never-ending need to avoid the
inherent meaninglessness of human existence?
Because, in the infinite expanse of space/time, the universe does not care whether your
mother’s hip replacement goes well, or your kids attend college, or your boss thinks you made a
bitching spreadsheet. It doesn’t care if the Democrats or the Republicans win the presidential
election. It doesn’t care if a celebrity gets caught doing cocaine while furiously masturbating in

an airport bathroom (again). It doesn’t care if the forests burn or the ice melts or the waters rise
or the air simmers or we all get vaporized by a superior alien race.
You care.
You care, and you desperately convince yourself that because you care, it all must have some
great cosmic meaning behind it.
You care because, deep down, you need to feel that sense of importance in order to avoid the
Uncomfortable Truth, to avoid the incomprehensibility of your existence, to avoid being crushed
by the weight of your own material insignificance. And you—like me, like everyone—then
project that imagined sense of importance onto the world around you because it gives you hope.
Is it too early to have this conversation? Here, have another coffee. I even made a winkysmiley face with the steamed milk. Isn’t it cute? I’ll wait while you Instagram it.
Okay, where were we? Oh yeah! The incomprehensibility of your existence—right. Now,
you might be thinking, “Well, Mark, I believe we’re all here for a reason, and nothing is a
coincidence, and everyone matters because all our actions affect somebody, and even if we can
help one person, then it’s still worth it, right?”
Now, aren’t you just as cute as a button!
See, that’s your hope talking. That’s a story your mind spins to make it worth waking up in
the morning: something needs to matter because without something mattering, then there’s no
reason to go on living. And some form of simple altruism or a reduction in suffering is always
our mind’s go-to for making it feel like it’s worth doing anything.
Our psyche needs hope to survive the way a fish needs water. Hope is the fuel for our mental
engine. It’s the butter on our biscuit. It’s a lot of really cheesy metaphors. Without hope, your
whole mental apparatus will stall out or starve. If we don’t believe there’s any hope that the
future will be better than the present, that our lives will improve in some way, then we spiritually
die. After all, if there’s no hope of things ever being better, then why live—why do anything?
Here’s what a lot of people don’t get: the opposite of happiness is not anger or sadness.1 If
you’re angry or sad, that means you still give a fuck about something. That means something still
matters. That means you still have hope.2
No, the opposite of happiness is hopelessness, an endless gray horizon of resignation and
indifference.3 It’s the belief that everything is fucked, so why do anything at all?
Hopelessness is a cold and bleak nihilism, a sense that there is no point, so fuck it—why not
run with scissors or sleep with your boss’s wife or shoot up a school? It is the Uncomfortable
Truth, a silent realization that in the face of infinity, everything we could possibly care about
quickly approaches zero.
Hopelessness is the root of anxiety, mental illness, and depression. It is the source of all
misery and the cause of all addiction. This is not an overstatement.4 Chronic anxiety is a crisis of
hope. It is the fear of a failed future. Depression is a crisis of hope. It is the belief in a
meaningless future. Delusion, addiction, obsession—these are all the mind’s desperate and
compulsive attempts at generating hope one neurotic tic or obsessive craving at a time.5
The avoidance of hopelessness—that is, the construction of hope—then becomes our mind’s
primary project. All meaning, everything we understand about ourselves and the world, is
constructed for the purpose of maintaining hope. Therefore, hope is the only thing any of us
willingly dies for. Hope is what we believe to be greater than ourselves. Without it, we believe
we are nothing.
When I was in college, my grandfather died. For a few years afterward, I had this intense
feeling that I must live in such a way as to make him proud. This felt reasonable and obvious on

some deep level, but it wasn’t. In fact, it made no logical sense at all. I hadn’t had a close
relationship with my grandfather. We’d never talked on the phone. We hadn’t corresponded. I
didn’t even see him the last five years or so that he was alive.
Not to mention: he was dead. How did my “living to make him proud” affect anything?
His death caused me to brush up against that Uncomfortable Truth. So, my mind got to work,
looking to build hope out of the situation in order to sustain me, to keep any nihilism at bay. My
mind decided that because my grandfather was now deprived of his ability to hope and aspire in
his own life, it was important for me to carry on hope and aspiration in his honor. This was my
mind’s bite-size piece of faith, my own personal mini-religion of purpose.
And it worked! For a short while, his death infused otherwise banal and empty experiences
with import and meaning. And that meaning gave me hope. You’ve probably felt something
similar when someone close to you passed away. It’s a common feeling. You tell yourself you’ll
live in a way that will make your loved one proud. You tell yourself you will use your life to
celebrate his. You tell yourself that this is an important and good thing.
And that “good thing” is what sustains us in these moments of existential terror. I walked
around imagining that my grandfather was following me, like a really nosy ghost, constantly
looking over my shoulder. This man whom I barely knew when he was alive was now somehow
extremely concerned with how I did on my calculus exam. It was totally irrational.
Our psyches construct little narratives like this whenever they face adversity, these
before/after stories we invent for ourselves. And we must keep these hope narratives alive, all the
time, even if they become unreasonable or destructive, as they are the only stabilizing force
protecting our minds from the Uncomfortable Truth.
These hope narratives are then what give our lives a sense of purpose. Not only do they
imply that there is something better in the future, but also that it’s actually possible to go out and
achieve that something. When people prattle on about needing to find their “life’s purpose,” what
they really mean is that it’s no longer clear to them what matters, what is a worthy use of their
limited time here on earth6—in short, what to hope for. They are struggling to see what the
before/after of their lives should be.
That’s the hard part: finding that before/after for yourself. It’s difficult because there’s no
way ever to know for sure if you’ve got it right. This is why a lot of people flock to religion,
because religions acknowledge this permanent state of unknowing and demand faith in the face
of it. This is also probably partly why religious people suffer from depression and commit
suicide in far fewer numbers than nonreligious people: that practiced faith protects them from the
Uncomfortable Truth.7
But your hope narratives don’t need to be religious. They can be anything. This book is my
little source of hope. It gives me purpose; it gives me meaning. And the narrative that I’ve
constructed around that hope is that I believe this book might help some people, that it might
make both my life and the world a little bit better.
Do I know that for sure? No. But it’s my little before/after story, and I’m sticking to it. It gets
me up in the morning and gets me excited about my life. And not only is that not a bad thing, it’s
the only thing.
For some people, the before/after story is raising their kids well. For others, it’s saving the
environment. For others, it’s making a bunch of money and having a big-ass boat. For others, it’s
simply trying to improve their golf swing.
Whether we realize it or not, we all have these narratives we’ve elected to buy into for
whatever reason. It doesn’t matter if the way you get to hope is via religious faith or evidence-

based theory or an intuition or a well-reasoned argument—they all produce the same result: you
have some belief that (a) there is potential for growth or improvement or salvation in the future,
and (b) there are ways we can navigate ourselves to get there. That’s it. Day after day, year after
year, our lives are made up of the endless overlapping of these hope narratives. They are the
psychological carrot at the end of the stick.
If this all sounds nihilistic, please, don’t get the wrong idea. This book is not an argument for
nihilism. It is one against nihilism—both the nihilism within us and the growing sense of
nihilism that seems to emerge with the modern world.8 And to successfully argue against
nihilism, you must start at nihilism. You must start at the Uncomfortable Truth. From there, you
must slowly build a convincing case for hope. And not just any hope, but a sustainable,
benevolent form of hope. A hope that can bring us together rather than tear us apart. A hope that
is robust and powerful, yet still grounded in reason and reality. A hope that can carry us to the
end of our days with a sense of gratitude and satisfaction.
This is not easy to do (obviously). And in the twenty-first century, it’s arguably more
difficult than ever. Nihilism and the pure indulgence of desire that accompanies it are gripping
the modern world. It is power for the sake of power. Success for the sake of success. Pleasure for
the sake of pleasure. Nihilism acknowledges no broader “Why?” It adheres to no great truth or
cause. It’s a simple “Because it feels good.” And this, as we’ll see, is what is making everything
seem so bad.

The Paradox of Progress
We live in an interesting time in that, materially, things are arguably better than they have ever
been before, yet we all seem to be losing our minds thinking the world is one giant toilet bowl
about to be flushed. An irrational sense of hopelessness is spreading across the rich, developed
world. It’s a paradox of progress: the better things get, the more anxious and desperate we all
seem to feel.9
In recent years, writers such as Steven Pinker and Hans Rosling have been making the case
that we’re wrong to feel so pessimistic, that things are, in fact, the best they’ve ever been and
likely going to get even better.10 Both men have filled long, heavy books with many charts and
graphs that start at one corner and always seem somehow to end up in the opposite corner.11
Both men have explained, at length, the biases and incorrect assumptions we all carry that cause
us to feel that things are much worse than they are. Progress, they argue, has continued,
uninterrupted, throughout modern history. People are more educated and literate than ever
before.12 Violence has trended down for decades, possibly centuries.13 Racism, sexism,
discrimination, and violence against women are at their lowest points in recorded history.14 We
have more rights than ever before.15 Half the planet has access to the internet.16 Extreme poverty
is at an all-time low worldwide.17 Wars are smaller and less frequent than at any other time in
recorded history.18 Children are dying less, and people are living longer.19 There’s more wealth
than ever before.20 We’ve, like, cured a bunch of diseases and stuff.21
And they’re right. It’s important to know these facts. But reading these books is also kind of
like listening to your Uncle Larry prattle on about how much worse things were when he was
your age. Even though he’s right, it doesn’t necessarily make you feel any better about your
problems.
Because, for all the good news being published today, here are some other surprising

statistics: in the United States, symptoms of depression and anxiety are on an eighty-year
upswing among young people and a twenty-year upswing among the adult population.22 Not
only are people experiencing depression in greater numbers, but they’re experiencing it at earlier
ages, with each generation.23 Since 1985, men and women have reported lower levels of life
satisfaction.24 Part of that is probably because stress levels have risen over the past thirty years.25
Drug overdoses have recently hit an all-time high as the opioid crisis has wrecked much of the
United States and Canada.26 Across the U.S. population, feelings of loneliness and social
isolation are up. Nearly half of all Americans now report feeling isolated, left out, or alone in
their lives.27 Social trust is also not only down across the developed world but plummeting,
meaning fewer people than ever trust their government, the media, or one another.28 In the
1980s, when researchers asked survey participants how many people they had discussed
important personal matters with over the previous six months, the most common answer was
“three.” By 2006, the most common answer was “zero.”29
Meanwhile, the environment is completely fucked. Nutjobs either have access to nuclear
weapons or are a hop, skip, and a jump away from getting them. Extremism across the world
continues to grow—in all forms, on both the right and the left, both religious and secular.
Conspiracy theorists, citizen militias, survivalists, and “preppers” (as in, prepping for
Armageddon) are all becoming more popular subcultures, to the point where they are borderline
mainstream.
Basically, we are the safest and most prosperous humans in the history of the world, yet we
are feeling more hopeless than ever before. The better things get, the more we seem to despair.
It’s the paradox of progress. And perhaps it can be summed up in one startling fact: the wealthier
and safer the place you live, the more likely you are to commit suicide.30
The incredible progress made in health, safety, and material wealth over the past few hundred
years is not to be denied. But these are statistics about the past, not the future. And that’s where
hope inevitably must be found: in our visions of the future.
Because hope is not based on statistics. Hope doesn’t care about the downward trend of gunrelated deaths or car accident fatalities. It doesn’t care that there wasn’t a commercial plane crash
last year or that literacy hit an all-time high in Mongolia (well, unless you’re Mongolian).31
Hope doesn’t care about the problems that have already been solved. Hope cares only about
the problems that still need to be solved. Because the better the world gets, the more we have to
lose. And the more we have to lose, the less we feel we have to hope for.
To build and maintain hope, we need three things: a sense of control, a belief in the value of
something, and a community.32 “Control” means we feel as though we’re in control of our own
life, that we can affect our fate. “Values” means we find something important enough to work
toward, something better, that’s worth striving for. And “community” means we are part of a
group that values the same things we do and is working toward achieving those things. Without a
community, we feel isolated, and our values cease to mean anything. Without values, nothing
appears worth pursuing. And without control, we feel powerless to pursue anything. Lose any of
the three, and you lose the other two. Lose any of the three, and you lose hope.
For us to understand why we’re suffering through such a crisis of hope today, we need to
understand the mechanics of hope, how it is generated and maintained. The next three chapters
will look at how we develop these three areas of our lives: our sense of control (chapter 2), our
values (chapter 3), and our communities (chapter 4).
We will then return to the original question: what is happening in our world that is causing us

to feel worse despite everything consistently getting better?
And the answer might surprise you.

Chapter 2

Self-Control Is an Illusion
It all started with a headache.1
“Elliot” was a successful man, an executive at a successful company. He was well liked by
his coworkers and neighbors. He could be charming and disarmingly funny. He was a husband
and a father and a friend and took sweet-ass beach vacations.
Except he had headaches, regularly. And these weren’t your typical, pop-an-Advil kind of
headaches. These were mind-crunching, corkscrewing headaches, like a wrecking ball banging
against the back of your eye sockets.
Elliot took medicine. He took naps. He tried to de-stress and chill out and hang loose and
brush it off and suck it up. Yet, the headaches continued. In fact, they only got worse. Soon, they
became so severe that Elliot couldn’t sleep at night or work during the day.
Finally, he went to a doctor. The doctor did doctor things and ran doctor tests and received
the doctor results and told Elliot the bad news: he had a brain tumor, right there on his frontal
lobe. Right there. See it? That gray blotch, in the front. And man, is it a big one. Size of a
baseball, I reckon.
The surgeon cut the tumor out, and Elliot went home. He went back to work. He went back
to his family and friends. Everything seemed fine and normal.
Then things went horribly wrong.
Elliot’s work performance suffered. Tasks that were once a breeze to him now required
mountains of concentration and effort. Simple decisions, such as whether to use a blue pen or a
black pen, would consume him for hours. He would make basic errors and leave them unfixed
for weeks. He became a scheduling black hole, missing meetings and deadlines as if they were
an insult to the fabric of space/time itself.
At first, his coworkers felt bad and covered for him. After all, the guy had just had a tumor
the size of a small fruit basket cut out of his head. But then the covering became too much for
them, and Elliot’s excuses too unreasonable. You skipped an investor’s meeting to buy a new
stapler, Elliot? Really? What were you thinking?2
After months of the botched meetings and the bullshit, the truth was undeniable: Elliot had
lost something more than a tumor in the surgery, and as far as his colleagues were concerned,
that something was a shitload of company money. So, Elliot was fired.
Meanwhile, his home life wasn’t faring much better. Imagine if you took a deadbeat dad,
stuffed him inside a couch potato, lightly glazed it with Family Feud reruns, and baked it at
350°F for twenty-four hours a day. That was Elliot’s new life. He missed his son’s Little League
games. He skipped a parent-teacher conference to watch a James Bond marathon on TV. He
forgot that his wife generally preferred it if he spoke to her more than once a week.
Fights erupted in Elliot’s marriage along new and unexpected fault lines—except, they
couldn’t really be considered fights. Fights require that two people give a shit. And while his
wife breathed fire, Elliot had trouble following the plot. Instead of acting with urgency to change

or to patch things up, to show that he loved and cared for these people who were his own, he
remained isolated and indifferent. It was as though he were living in another area code, one never
quite reachable from anywhere on earth.
Eventually, his wife couldn’t take it anymore. Elliot had lost something else besides that
tumor, she yelled. And that something was called his goddamn heart. She divorced him and took
the kids. And Elliot was alone.
Dejected and confused, Elliot began looking for ways to restart his career. He got sucked into
some bad business ventures. A scam artist conned him out of much of his savings. A predatory
woman seduced him, convinced him to elope, and then divorced him a year later, making off
with half his assets. He loafed around town, settling in increasingly cheaper and shittier
apartments until, after a few years, he was effectively homeless. His brother took him in and
began supporting him. Friends and family looked on aghast while, over a few short years, a man
they had once admired essentially threw his life away. No one could make sense of it. It was
undeniable that something in Elliot had changed; that those debilitating headaches had caused
more than pain.
The question was, what had changed?
Elliot’s brother chaperoned him from one doctor’s visit to the next. “He’s not himself,” the
brother would say. “He has a problem. He seems fine, but he’s not. I promise.”
The doctors did their doctor things and received their doctor results, and unfortunately, they
said that Elliot was perfectly normal—or, at least, he fit their definition of normal; above
average, even. His CAT scans looked fine. His IQ was still high. His reasoning was solid. His
memory was great. He could discuss, at length, the repercussions and consequences of his poor
choices. He could converse on a wide range of subjects with humor and charm. His psychiatrist
said Elliot wasn’t depressed. On the contrary, he had high self-esteem, and no signs of chronic
anxiety or stress—he exhibited almost Zen-like calm in the eye of a hurricane caused by his own
negligence.
His brother couldn’t accept this. Something was wrong. Something was missing in him.
Finally, in desperation, Elliot was referred to a famous neuroscientist named Antonio
Damasio.
Initially, Antonio Damasio did the same things the other doctors had done: he gave Elliot a
bunch of cognitive tests. Memory, reflexes, intelligence, personality, spatial relations, moral
reasoning—everything checked out. Elliot passed with flying colors.
Then, Damasio did something to Elliot no other doctor had thought to do: he talked to him—
like, really talked to him. He wanted to know everything: every mistake, every error, every
regret. How had he lost his job, his family, his house, his savings? Take me through each
decision, explain the thought process (or, in this case, the lack of a thought process).
Elliot could explain, at length, what decisions he’d made, but he couldn’t explain the why of
those decisions. He could recount facts and sequences of events with perfect fluidity and even a
certain dramatic flair, but when asked to analyze his decision making—why did he decide that
buying a new stapler was more important than meeting with an investor, why did he decide that
James Bond was more interesting than his kids?—he was at a loss. He had no answers. And not
only that, he wasn’t even upset about having no answers. In fact, he didn’t care.
This was a man who had lost everything due to his own poor choices and mistakes, who had
exhibited no self-control whatsoever, and who was completely aware of the disaster his life had
become, and yet he apparently showed no remorse, no self-loathing, not even a little bit of
embarrassment. Many people have been driven to suicide for less than what Elliot had endured.

Yet there he was, not only comfortable with his own misfortune but indifferent to it.
That’s when Damasio had a brilliant realization: the psychological tests Elliot had undergone
were designed to measure his ability to think, but none of the tests was designed to measure his
ability to feel. Every doctor had been so concerned about Elliot’s reasoning abilities that no one
had stopped to consider that it was Elliot’s capacity for emotion that had been damaged. And
even if they had realized it, there was no standardized way of measuring that damage.
One day, one of Damasio’s colleagues printed up a bunch of grotesque and disturbing
pictures. There were burn victims, gruesome murder scenes, war-torn cities, and starving
children. He then showed Elliot the photos, one by one.
Elliot was completely indifferent. He felt nothing. And the fact that he didn’t care was so
shocking that even he had to comment on how fucked up it was. He admitted that he knew for
sure that these images would have disturbed him in the past, that his heart would have welled up
with empathy and horror, that he would have turned away in disgust. But now? As he sat there,
staring at the darkest corruptions of the human experience, Elliot felt nothing.
And this, Damasio discovered, was the problem: while Elliot’s knowledge and reasoning
were left intact, the tumor and/or the surgery to remove it had debilitated his ability to empathize
and feel. His inner world no longer possessed lightness and darkness but was instead an endless
gray miasma. Attending his daughter’s piano recital evoked in him all the vibrancy and joyful
fatherly pride of buying a new pair of socks. Losing a million dollars felt exactly the same to him
as pumping gas, laundering his sheets, or watching Family Feud. He had become a walking,
talking indifference machine. And without that ability to make value judgments, to determine
better from worse, no matter how intelligent he was, Elliot had lost his self-control.3
But this raised a huge question: if Elliot’s cognitive abilities (his intelligence, his memory, his
attention) were all in perfect shape, why couldn’t he make effective decisions anymore?
This stumped Damasio and his colleagues. We’ve all wished at times that we couldn’t feel
emotion, because our emotions often drive us to do stupid shit we later regret. For centuries,
psychologists and philosophers assumed that dampening or suppressing our emotions was the
solution to all life’s problems. Yet, here was a man stripped of his emotions and empathy
entirely, someone who had nothing but his intelligence and reasoning, and his life had quickly
degenerated into a total clusterfuck. His case went against all the common wisdom about rational
decision making and self-control.
But there was a second, equally perplexing question: If Elliot was still as smart as a whip and
could reason his way through problems presented to him, why did his work performance fall off
a cliff? Why did his productivity morph into a raging dumpster fire? Why did he essentially
abandon his family knowing full well the negative consequences? Even if you don’t give a shit
about your wife or your job anymore, you should be able to reason that it’s still important to
maintain them, right? I mean, that’s what sociopaths eventually figure out. So, why couldn’t
Elliot? Really, how hard is it to show up to a Little League game every once in a while?
Somehow, by losing his ability to feel, Elliot had also lost his ability to make decisions. He’d lost
the ability to control his own life.
We’ve all had the experience of knowing what we should do yet failing to do it. We’ve all
put off important tasks, ignored people we care about, and failed to act in our own self-interest.
And usually when we fail to do the things we should, we assume it’s because we can’t
sufficiently control our emotions. We’re too undisciplined or we lack knowledge.
Yet Elliot’s case called all this into question. It called into question the very idea of selfcontrol, the idea that we can logically force ourselves to do things that are good for us despite

our impulses and emotions.
To generate hope in our lives, we must first feel as though we have control over our lives.
We must feel as though we’re following through on what we know is good and right; that we’re
chasing after “something better.” Yet many of us struggle with the inability to control ourselves.
Elliot’s case would be one of the breakthroughs to understanding why this occurs. This man,
poor, isolated and alone; this man staring at photos of broken bodies and earthquake rubble that
could easily have been metaphors for his life; this man who had lost everything, absolutely
everything, and still cracked a smile to tell about it—this man would be the key to
revolutionizing our understanding of the human mind, how we make decisions, and how much
self-control we actually have.

The Classic Assumption
Once, when asked about his drinking, the musician Tom Waits famously muttered, “I’d rather
have a bottle in front of me than a frontal lobotomy.” He appeared to be hammered when he said
it. Oh, and he was on national television.4
The frontal lobotomy is a form of brain surgery wherein a hole is drilled into your skull
through your nose and then the frontal lobe is gently sliced with an icepick.5 The procedure was
invented in 1935 by a neurologist named António Egas Moniz.6 Egas Moniz discovered that if
you took people with extreme anxiety, suicidal depression, or other mental health issues (aka
crises of hope) and maimed their brain in just the right way, they’d chill the fuck out.
Egas Moniz believed that the lobotomy, once perfected, could cure all mental illness, and he
marketed it to the world as such. By end of the 1940s, the procedure was a hit, being performed
on tens of thousands of patients all over the world. Egas Moniz would even win a Nobel Prize
for his discovery.
But by the 1950s, people began to notice that—and this might sound crazy—drilling a hole
through somebody’s face and scraping their brain the same way you clean ice off your
windshield can produce a few negative side effects. And by “a few negative side effects,” I mean
the patients became goddamn potatoes. While often “curing” patients of their extreme emotional
afflictions, the procedure also left them with an inability to focus, make decisions, have careers,
make long-term plans, or think abstractly about themselves. Essentially, they became mindlessly
satisfied zombies. They became Elliots.
The Soviet Union, of all places, was the first country to outlaw the lobotomy. The Soviets
declared the procedure “contrary to human principles” and claimed that it “turned an insane
person into an idiot.”7 This was sort of a wake-up call to the rest of the world, because let’s face
it, when Joseph Stalin is lecturing you about ethics and human decency, you know you’ve fucked
up.
After that, the rest of the world began, slowly, to ban the practice, and by the 1960s, pretty
much everyone hated it. The last lobotomy would be performed in the United States in 1967, and
the patient would die. Ten years later, a drunken Tom Waits muttered his famous line on
television, and the rest, as they say, is history.
Tom Waits was a blistering alcoholic who spent most of the 1970s trying to keep his eyes open
and remember where he last left his cigarettes.8 He also found time to write and record seven
brilliant albums in this period. He was both prolific and profound, winning awards and selling
millions of records that were celebrated worldwide. He was one of those rare artists whose

insight into the human condition could be startling.
Waits’s quip about the lobotomy makes us laugh, but there’s a hidden wisdom to it: that he’d
rather have the problem of passion with the bottle than have no passion at all; that it’s better to
find hope in lowly places than to find none; that without our unruly impulses, we are nothing.
There’s pretty much always been a tacit assumption that our emotions cause all our
problems, and that our reason must swoop in to clean up the mess. This line of thinking goes all
the way back to Socrates, who declared reason the root of all virtue.9 At the beginning of the
Enlightenment, Descartes argued that our reason was separate from our animalistic desires and
that it had to learn to control those desires.10 Kant sort of said the same thing.11 Freud, too,
except there were a lot of penises involved.12 And when Egas Moniz lobotomized his first
patient in 1935, I’m sure he thought he had just discovered a way to do what, for more than two
thousand years, philosophers had declared needed to be done: to grant reason dominion over the
unruly passions, to help humanity finally exercise some damn control over itself.
This assumption (that we must use our rational mind to dominate our emotions) has trickled
down through the centuries and continues to define much of our culture today. Let’s call it the
“Classic Assumption.” The Classic Assumption says that if a person is undisciplined, unruly, or
malicious, it’s because he lacks the ability to subjugate his feelings, that he is weak-willed or just
plain fucked up. The Classic Assumption sees passion and emotion as flaws, errors within the
human psyche that must be overcome and fixed within the self.
Today, we usually judge people based on the Classic Assumption. Obese people are ridiculed
and shamed because their obesity is seen as a failure of self-control. They know they should be
thin, yet they continue to eat. Why? Something must be wrong with them, we assume. Smokers:
same deal. Drug addicts receive the same treatment, of course, but often with the extra stigma of
being defined as criminals.
Depressed and suicidal people are subjected to the Classic Assumption in a way that’s
dangerous, being told that their inability to create hope and meaning in their lives is their own
damn fault, that maybe, if they just tried a little harder, hanging themselves by the necktie
wouldn’t sound so appealing.
We see succumbing to our emotional impulses as a moral failing. We see a lack of selfcontrol as a sign of a deficient character. Conversely, we celebrate people who beat their
emotions into submission. We get collective hard-ons for athletes and businessmen and leaders
who are ruthless and robotic in their efficiency. If a CEO sleeps under his desk and doesn’t see
his kids for six weeks at a time—fuck yeah, that’s determination! See? Anyone can be
successful!
Clearly, it’s not hard to see how the Classic Assumption can lead to some damaging . . . er,
assumptions. If the Classic Assumption is true, then we should be able to exhibit self-control,
prevent emotional outbursts and crimes of passion, and stave off addiction and indulgences
through mental effort alone. And any failure to do so reflects something inherently faulty or
damaged within us.
This is why we often develop the false belief that we need to change who we are. Because if
we can’t achieve our goals, if we can’t lose the weight or get the promotion or learn the skill,
then that signifies some internal deficiency. Therefore, in order to maintain hope, we decide we
must change ourselves, become somebody totally new and different. This desire to change
ourselves then refills us with hope. The “old me” couldn’t shake that terrible smoking habit, but
the “new me” will. And we’re off to the races again.
The constant desire to change yourself then becomes its own sort of addiction: each cycle of

“changing yourself” results in similar failures of self-control, therefore making you feel as
though you need to “change yourself” all over again. Each cycle refuels you with the hope
you’re looking for. Meanwhile, the Classic Assumption, the root of the problem, is never
addressed or questioned, let alone thrown out.
Like a bad case of acne, a whole industry has sprouted up over the past couple of centuries
around this “change yourself” idea. This industry is replete with false promises and clues to the
secrets of happiness, success, and self-control. Yet all the industry does is reinforce the same
impulses that drive people to feel inadequate in the first place.13
The truth is that the human mind is far more complex than any “secret.” And you can’t
simply change yourself; nor, I would argue, should you always feel you must.
We cling to this narrative about self-control because the belief that we’re in complete control
of ourselves is a major source of hope. We want to believe that changing ourselves is as simple
as knowing what to change. We want to believe that the ability to do something is as simple as
deciding to do it and mustering enough willpower to get there. We want to believe ourselves to
be the masters of our own destiny, capable of anything we can dream.
This is what made Damasio’s discovery with “Elliot” such a big deal: it showed that the
Classic Assumption is wrong. If the Classic Assumption were true, if life were as simple as
learning to control one’s emotions and make decisions based on reason, then Elliot should have
been an unstoppable badass, tirelessly industrious, and a ruthless decision maker. Similarly, if
the Classic Assumption were true, lobotomies should be all the rage. We’d all be saving up for
them as if they were boob jobs.
But lobotomies don’t work, and Elliot’s life was ruined.
The fact is that we require more than willpower to achieve self-control. It turns out that our
emotions are instrumental in our decision making and our actions. We just don’t always realize
it.

You Have Two Brains, and They’re Really Bad at Talking to Each Other
Let’s pretend your mind is a car. Let’s call it the “Consciousness Car.” Your Consciousness Car
is driving along the road of life, and there are intersections, on-ramps, and off-ramps. These
roads and intersections represent the decisions you must make as you drive, and they will
determine your destination.
Now, there are two travelers in your Consciousness Car: a Thinking Brain and a Feeling
Brain.14 The Thinking Brain represents your conscious thoughts, your ability to make
calculations, and your ability to reason through various options and express ideas through
language. Your Feeling Brain represents your emotions, impulses, intuition, and instincts. While
your Thinking Brain is calculating payment schedules on your credit card statement, your
Feeling Brain wants to sell everything and run away to Tahiti.
Each of your two brains has its strengths and weaknesses. The Thinking Brain is
conscientious, accurate, and impartial. It is methodical and rational, but it is also slow. It requires
a lot of effort and energy, and like a muscle, it must be built up over time and can become
fatigued if overexerted.15 The Feeling Brain, however, arrives at its conclusions quickly and
effortlessly. The problem is that it is often inaccurate and irrational. The Feeling Brain is also a
bit of a drama queen and has a bad habit of overreacting.
When we think of ourselves and our decision making, we generally assume that the Thinking
Brain is driving our Consciousness Car and the Feeling Brain is sitting in the passenger seat

shouting out where it wants to go. We’re driving along, accomplishing our goals and figuring out
how to get home, when that damn Feeling Brain sees something shiny or sexy or fun-looking and
yanks the steering wheel in another direction, thus causing us to careen into oncoming traffic,
harming other people’s Consciousness Cars as well as our own.
This is the Classic Assumption, the belief that our reason is ultimately in control of our life
and that we must train our emotions to sit the fuck down and shut up while the adult is driving.
We then applaud this kidnapping and abuse of our emotions by congratulating ourselves on our
self-control.
But our Consciousness Car doesn’t work that way. When his tumor was removed, Elliot’s
Feeling Brain got thrown out of his moving mental vehicle, and nothing got better for him. In
fact, his Consciousness Car stalled out. Lobotomy patients had their Feeling Brains tied up and
thrown in the car’s trunk, and that merely caused them to become sedated and lazy, unable to get
out of bed or even dress themselves much of the time.
Meanwhile, Tom Waits was pretty much all Feeling Brain all the time, and he got paid
copious amounts of money to be drunk on television talk shows. So, there’s that.
Here’s the truth: the Feeling Brain is driving our Consciousness Car. And I don’t care how
scientific you think you are or how many letters you have after your name, you’re one of us,
bucko. You’re a crazy Feeling Brain–piloted meat robot just like the rest of us. Keep your bodily
fluids to yourself, please.
The Feeling Brain drives our Consciousness Car because, ultimately, we are moved to action
only by emotion. That’s because action is emotion.16 Emotion is the biological hydraulic system
that pushes our bodies into movement. Fear is not this magical thing your brain invents. No, it
happens in our bodies. It’s the tightening of your stomach, the tensing of your muscles, the
release of adrenaline, the overwhelming desire for space and emptiness around your body. While
the Thinking Brain exists solely within the synaptic arrangements inside your skull, the Feeling
Brain is the wisdom and stupidity of the entire body. Anger pushes your body to move. Anxiety
pulls it into retreat. Joy lights up the facial muscles, while sadness attempts to shade your
existence from view. Emotion inspires action, and action inspires emotion. The two are
inseparable.
This leads to the simplest and most obvious answer to the timeless question, why don’t we do
things we know we should do?
Because we don’t feel like it.
Every problem of self-control is not a problem of information or discipline or reason but,
rather, of emotion. Self-control is an emotional problem; laziness is an emotional problem;
procrastination is an emotional problem; underachievement is an emotional problem;
impulsiveness is an emotional problem.
This sucks. Because emotional problems are much harder to deal with than logical ones.
There are equations to help you calculate the monthly payments on your car loan. There are no
equations to help you end a bad relationship.
And as you’ve probably figured out by now, intellectually understanding how to change your
behavior doesn’t change your behavior. (Trust me, I’ve read like twelve books on nutrition and
am still chomping on a burrito as I write this.) We know we should stop smoking cigarettes or
stop eating sugar or stop talking shit about our friends behind their backs, but we still do it. And
it’s not because we don’t know better; it’s because we don’t feel better.
Emotional problems are irrational, meaning they cannot be reasoned with. And this brings us
to even worse news: emotional problems can only have emotional solutions. It’s all up to the

Feeling Brain. And if you’ve seen how most people’s Feeling Brains drive, that’s pretty fucking
scary.
Meanwhile, while all this is going on, the Thinking Brain is sitting in the passenger seat
imagining itself to be totally in control of the situation. If the Feeling Brain is our driver, then the
Thinking Brain is the navigator. It has stacks of maps to reality that it has drawn and
accumulated throughout life. It knows how to double back and find alternate routes to the same
destination. It knows where the bad turns are and where to find the shortcuts. It correctly sees
itself as the intelligent, rational brain, and it believes that this somehow privileges it to be in
control of the Consciousness Car. But, alas, it doesn’t. As Daniel Kahneman once put it, the
Thinking Brain is “the supporting character who imagines herself to be the hero.”17
Even if sometimes they can’t stand each other, our two brains need each other. The Feeling
Brain generates the emotions that cause us to move into action, and the Thinking Brain suggests
where to direct that action. The keyword here is suggests. While the Thinking Brain is not able to
control the Feeling Brain, it is able to influence it, sometimes to a great degree. The Thinking
Brain can convince the Feeling Brain to pursue a new road to a better future, to pull a U-turn
when it has made a mistake, or to consider new routes or territories once ignored. But the Feeling
Brain is stubborn, and if it wants to go in one direction, it will drive that way no matter how
many facts or data the Thinking Brain provides. Moral psychologist Jonathan Haidt compares the
two brains to an elephant and its rider: the rider can gently steer and pull the elephant in a
particular direction, but ultimately the elephant is going to go where it wants to go.18

The Clown Car
The Feeling Brain, as great as it is, has its dark side. In the Consciousness Car, your Feeling
Brain is like a verbally abusive boyfriend who refuses to pull over and ask for directions—he
hates being told where to go and he will absolutely make you fucking miserable if you question
his driving.
In order to avoid these psychological kerfuffles, and to maintain a sense of hope, the
Thinking Brain develops a tendency to draw maps explaining or justifying where the Feeling
Brain has already decided it wants to go. If the Feeling Brain wants ice cream, instead of
contradicting it with facts about processed sugar and excess calories, your Thinking Brain
decides, “You know what, I worked hard today. I deserve some ice cream,” and your Feeling
Brain responds with a sense of ease and satisfaction. If your Feeling Brain decides that your
partner is an asshole and you’ve done nothing wrong, your Thinking Brain’s immediate reaction
will be to recall instances when you, in fact, were a beacon of patience and humility while your
partner was secretly conspiring to ruin your life.
In this way, the two brains develop a really unhealthy relationship that might resemble your
mom and dad on road trips when you were a kid. The Thinking Brain makes shit up that the
Feeling Brain wants to hear. And in return, the Feeling Brain promises not to careen off the side
of the road, killing everyone.
It’s incredibly easy to let your Thinking Brain fall into the trap of merely drawing the maps
the Feeling Brain wants to follow. This is called the “self-serving bias,” and it’s the basis for
pretty much everything awful about humanity.
Usually, the self-serving bias simply makes you prejudiced and a little bit self-centered. You
assume that what feels right is right. You make snap judgments about people, places, groups, and
ideas, many of which are unfair or even a little bit bigoted.

But in its extreme form, the self-serving bias can become outright delusion, causing you to
believe in a reality that is not there, smudging memories and exaggerating facts, all in the service
of the Feeling Brain’s never-ending cravings. If the Thinking Brain is weak and/or uneducated,
or if the Feeling Brain is riled up, the Thinking Brain will succumb to the Feeling Brain’s fiery
whims and dangerous driving. It will lose the ability to think for itself or to contradict the Feeling
Brain’s conclusions.
This effectively turns your Consciousness Car into a Clown Car, with big, springy red wheels
and circus music playing over a loudspeaker wherever you go.19 Your Consciousness Car
becomes a Clown Car when your Thinking Brain has completely capitulated to your Feeling
Brain, when your life’s pursuits are determined purely by self-gratification, when truth warps
into a cartoon of self-serving assumptions, when all beliefs and principles are lost in a sea of
nihilism.
The Clown Car invariably drives toward addiction, narcissism, and compulsion. People
whose minds are Clown Cars are easily manipulated by whatever person or group makes them
feel good consistently—whether it is a religious leader, politician, self-help guru, or sinister
internet forum. A Clown Car will gladly steamroll other Consciousness Cars (i.e., other people)
with its big, red rubbery tires because its Thinking Brain will justify this by saying they deserved
it—they were evil, inferior, or part of some made-up problem.
Some Clown Cars merely drive toward fun—they’re all about drinking and fucking and
partying. Others drive toward power. These are the most dangerous Clown Cars, as their
Thinking Brains set to work justifying their abuse and subjugation of others through intellectualsounding theories about economics, politics, race, genetics, gender, biology, history, and so on.
A Clown Car will sometimes pursue hate, too, because hate brings its own odd satisfaction and
self-assurance. Such a mind is prone to self-righteous anger, as having an external target
reassures it of its own moral superiority. Inevitably, it drives toward the destruction of others
because it is only through the destruction and subjugation of the outer world that its endless inner
impulses can be satisfied.
It’s hard to pull someone out of the Clown Car once they’re in it. In the Clown Car, the
Thinking Brain has been bullied and abused by the Feeling Brain for so long that it develops a
sort of Stockholm syndrome—it can’t imagine a life beyond pleasing and justifying the Feeling
Brain. It can’t fathom contradicting the Feeling Brain or challenging it on where it’s going, and it
resents you for suggesting that it should. With the Clown Car, there’s no independent thought
and no ability to measure contradiction or switch beliefs or opinions. In a sense, the person with
a Clown Car mind ceases to have an individual identity at all.
This is why cultish leaders always start by encouraging people to shut off their Thinking
Brains as much as possible. Initially, this feels profound to people because the Thinking Brain is
often correcting the Feeling Brain, showing it where it took a wrong turn. So, silencing the
Thinking Brain will feel extremely good for a short period. And people are always mistaking
what feels good for what is good.
The metaphorical Clown Car is what inspired ancient philosophers to warn against the
overindulgence and worship of feelings.20 It was the fear of the Clown Car that inspired the
Greeks and Romans to teach of the virtues and, later, the Christian Church to push a message of
abstinence and self-denial.21 Both classical philosophers and the Church had seen the destruction
wrought by narcissistic and megalomaniacal men in power. And they all believed that the only
way to manage the Feeling Brain was to deprive it, to give it as little oxygen as possible, thus
preventing it from exploding and destroying the world around it. This thinking gave birth to the

Classic Assumption: that the only way to be a good person is through dominance of the Thinking
Brain over the Feeling Brain, the championing of reason over emotion, duty over desire.
For most of human history, people have been brutal, superstitious, and uneducated. People in
the Middle Ages used to torture cats for sport and take their kids to watch the local burglar get
his nuts chopped off in the town square.22 People were sadistic, impulsive fuckers. For most of
history, the world has not been a pleasant place to live, and that was largely because everyone’s
Feeling Brains were running amok.23 The Classic Assumption was often the only thing that stood
between civilization and total anarchy.
Then something happened in the last couple of hundred years. People built trains and cars
and invented central heating and stuff. Economic prosperity outran human impulses. People were
no longer worried about not being able to eat or about being killed for insulting the king. Life
was more comfortable and easier. People now had a ton of free time to sit and think and worry
about all sorts of existential shit that they had never considered before.
As a result, several movements arose in the late twentieth century championing the Feeling
Brain.24 And indeed, liberating the Feeling Brain from the Thinking Brain’s suppression was
incredibly therapeutic for millions of people (and continues to be so today).
The problem was that people began to go too far the other way. They went from recognizing
and honoring their feelings to the other extreme of believing that their feelings were the only
thing that mattered. This has been particularly true for white, middle-class yuppies who were
raised under the Classic Assumption, grew up miserable, and then got in touch with their Feeling
Brains at a much later age. Because these people never had any real problems in their lives other
than feeling bad, they erroneously came to believe that feelings were all that mattered and that
the Thinking Brain’s maps were merely inconvenient distractions from those feelings. Many of
these people called this shutting off of their Thinking Brains in favor of their Feeling Brains
“spiritual growth,” and convinced themselves that being self-absorbed twats brought them closer
to enlightenment,25 when, really, they were indulging the old Feeling Brain. It was the same old
Clown Car with a new, spiritual-looking paint job.26
The overindulgence of emotion leads to a crisis of hope, but so does the repression of emotion.27
The person who denies his Feeling Brain numbs himself to the world around him. By
rejecting his emotions, he rejects making value judgments, that is, deciding that one thing is
better than another. As a result, he becomes indifferent to life and the results of his decisions. He
struggles to engage with others. His relationships suffer. And eventually, his chronic indifference
leads him to an unpleasant visit with the Uncomfortable Truth. After all, if nothing is more or
less important, then there’s no reason to do anything. And if there’s no reason to do anything,
then why live at all?
Meanwhile, the person who denies his Thinking Brain becomes impulsive and selfish,
warping reality to conform to his whims and fancies, which are then never satiated. His crisis of
hope is that no matter how much he eats, drinks, dominates, or fucks, it will never be enough—it
will never matter enough, it will never feel significant enough. He will be on a perpetual
treadmill of desperation, always running, though never moving. And if at any point he stops, the
Uncomfortable Truth immediately catches up to him.
I know. I’m being dramatic again. But I have to be, Thinking Brain. Otherwise, the Feeling
Brain will get bored and close this book. Ever wonder why a page-turner is a page-turner? It’s
not you turning those pages, idiot; it’s your Feeling Brain. It’s the anticipation and suspense; the
joy of discovery and the satisfaction of resolution. Good writing is writing that is able to speak to

and stimulate both brains at the same time.
And this is the whole problem: speaking to both brains, integrating our brains into a
cooperative, coordinated, unified whole. Because if self-control is an illusion of the Thinking
Brain’s overblown self-regard, then it’s self-acceptance that will save us—accepting our
emotions and working with them rather than against them. But to develop that self-acceptance,
we have to do some work, Thinking Brain. Let’s talk. Meet me in the next section.

An Open Letter to Your Thinking Brain
Hey, Thinking Brain.
How are things? How’s the family? How’d that tax situation work out?
Oh, wait. Never mind. I forgot—I don’t fucking care.
Look, I know there’s something the Feeling Brain is screwing up for you. Maybe it’s an
important relationship. Maybe it’s causing you to make embarrassing phone calls at 3:00 a.m.
Maybe it’s constantly medicating itself with substances it probably shouldn’t be using. I know
there’s something you wish you could control about yourself but can’t. And I imagine, at times,
this problem causes you to lose hope.
But listen, Thinking Brain, those things you hate so much about your Feeling Brain—the
cravings, the impulses, the horrible decision making? You need to find a way to empathize with
them. Because that’s the only language the Feeling Brain really understands: empathy. The
Feeling Brain is a sensitive creature; it’s made out of your damn feelings, after all. I wish it
weren’t true. I wish you could just show it a spreadsheet to make it understand—you know, like
we understand. But you can’t.
Instead of bombarding the Feeling Brain with facts and reason, start by asking how it’s
feeling. Say something like “Hey, Feeling Brain, how do you feel about going to the gym
today?” or “How do you feel about changing careers?” or “How do you feel about selling
everything and moving to Tahiti?”
The Feeling Brain won’t respond with words. No, the Feeling Brain is too quick for words.
Instead, it will respond with feelings. Yeah, I know that’s obvious, but sometimes you’re kind of
a dumbass, Thinking Brain.
The Feeling Brain might respond with a feeling of laziness or a feeling of anxiety. There
might even be multiple emotions, a little bit of excitement with a pinch of anger thrown into the
mix. Whatever it is, you, as the Thinking Brain (aka, the responsible one in this cranium), need
to remain nonjudgmental in the face of whatever feelings arise. Feeling lazy? That’s okay; we all
feel lazy sometimes. Feeling self-loathing? Perhaps that’s an invitation to take the conversation
further. The gym can wait.
It’s important to let the Feeling Brain air out all its icky, twisted feelings. Just get them out
into the open where they can breathe, because the more they breathe, the weaker their grip is on
the steering wheel of your Consciousness Car.28
Then, once you feel you’ve reached a point of understanding with your Feeling Brain, it’s
time to appeal to it in a way it understands: through feelings. Maybe think about all the benefits
of some desired new behavior. Maybe mention all the sexy, shiny, fun things at the desired
destination. Maybe remind the Feeling Brain how good it feels to have exercised, how great it
will feel to look good in a bathing suit this summer, how much you respect yourself when you’ve
followed through on your goals, how happy you are when you live by your values, when you act
as an example to the ones you love.

Basically, you need to bargain with your Feeling Brain the way you’d bargain with a
Moroccan rug seller: it needs to believe it’s getting a good deal, or else there’ll just be a lot of
hand waving and shouting with no result. Maybe you agree to do something the Feeling Brain
likes, as long as it does something it doesn’t like. Watch your favorite TV show, but only at the
gym while you’re on the treadmill. Go out with friends, but only if you’ve paid your bills for the
month.29
Start easy. Remember, the Feeling Brain is highly sensitive, and completely unreasonable.
When you offer something easy with an emotional benefit (e.g., feeling good after a workout;
pursuing a career that feels significant; being admired and respected by your kids), the Feeling
Brain will respond with another emotion, either positive or negative. If the emotion is positive,
the Feeling Brain will be willing to drive a little bit in that direction—but only a little bit!
Remember: feelings never last. That’s why you start small. Just put on your gym shoes today,
Feeling Brain. That’s all. Let’s just see what happens.30
If the Feeling Brain’s response is negative, you simply acknowledge that negative emotion
and offer another compromise. See how the Feeling Brain responds. Then rinse and repeat.
But whatever you do, do not fight the Feeling Brain. That just makes things worse. For one,
you won’t win, ever. The Feeling Brain is always driving. Second, fighting with the Feeling
Brain about feeling bad will only cause the Feeling Brain to feel even worse. So, why would you
do that? You were supposed to be the smart one, Thinking Brain.
This dialogue with your Feeling Brain will continue back and forth like this, on and off, for
days, weeks, or maybe even months. Hell, years. This dialogue between the brains takes practice.
For some, the practice will be recognizing what emotion the Feeling Brain is putting out there.
Some people’s Thinking Brains have ignored their Feeling Brains for so long that it takes them a
while to learn how to listen again.
Others will have the opposite problem: They will have to train their Thinking Brain to speak
up, force it to propose an independent thought (a new direction) that’s separate from the Feeling
Brain’s feelings. They will have to ask themselves, what if my Feeling Brain is wrong to feel this
way? and then consider the alternatives. This will be difficult for them at first. But the more this
dialogue occurs, the more the two brains will begin to listen to each other. The Feeling Brain will
start giving off different emotions, and the Thinking Brain will have a better understanding of
how to help the Feeling Brain navigate the road of life.
This is what’s referred to in psychology as “emotional regulation,” and it’s basically learning
how to put a bunch of fucking guardrails and One Way signs along your road of life to keep your
Feeling Brain from careening off a cliff.31 It’s hard work, but it’s arguably the only work.
Because you don’t get to control your feelings, Thinking Brain. Self-control is an illusion.
It’s an illusion that occurs when both brains are aligned and pursuing the same course of action.
It’s an illusion designed to give people hope. And when the Thinking Brain isn’t aligned with the
Feeling Brain, people feel powerless, and the world around them begins to feel hopeless. The
only way you consistently nail that illusion is by consistently communicating and aligning the
brains around the same values. It’s a skill, much the same as playing water polo or juggling
knives is a skill. It takes work. And there will be failures along the way. You might slice your
arm open and bleed everywhere. But that’s just the cost of admission.
But here’s what you do have, Thinking Brain. You may not have self-control, but you do
have meaning control. This is your superpower. This is your gift. You get to control the meaning
of your impulses and feelings. You get to decipher them however you see fit. You get to draw
the map. And this is incredibly powerful, because it’s the meaning that we ascribe to our feelings

that can often alter how the Feeling Brain reacts to them.
And this is how you produce hope. This is how you produce a sense that the future can be
fruitful and pleasant: by interpreting the shit the Feeling Brain slings at you in a profound and
useful way. Instead of justifying and enslaving yourself to the impulses, challenge them and
analyze them. Change their character and their shape.
This is basically what good therapy is, of course. Self-acceptance and emotional intelligence
and all that. Actually, this whole “teach your Thinking Brain to decipher and cooperate with your
Feeling Brain instead of judging him and thinking he’s an evil piece of shit” is the basis for CBT
(cognitive behavioral therapy) and ACT (acceptance and commitment therapy) and a lot of other
fun acronyms that clinical psychologists invented to make our lives better.
Our crises of hope often start with a basic sense that we do not have control over ourselves or
our destiny. We feel victims to the world around us or, worse, to our own minds. We fight our
Feeling Brain, trying to beat it into submission. Or we do the opposite and follow it mindlessly.
We ridicule ourselves and hide from the world because of the Classic Assumption. And in many
ways, the affluence and connectivity of the modern world only make the pain of the illusion of
self-control that much worse.
But this is your mission, Thinking Brain, should you choose to accept it: Engage the Feeling
Brain on its own terms. Create an environment that can bring about the Feeling Brain’s best
impulses and intuition, rather than its worst. Accept and work with, rather than against, whatever
the Feeling Brain spews at you.
Everything else (all the judgments and assumptions and self-aggrandizement) is an illusion.
It was always an illusion. You don’t have control, Thinking Brain. You never did, and you never
will. Yet, you needn’t lose hope.
Antonio Damasio ended up writing a celebrated book called Descartes’ Error about his
experiences with “Elliot,” and much of his other research. In it, he argues that the same way the
Thinking Brain produces a logical, factual form of knowledge, the Feeling Brain develops its
own type of value-laden knowledge.32 The Thinking Brain makes associations among facts, data,
and observations. Similarly, the Feeling Brain makes value judgments based on those same facts,
data, and observations. The Feeling Brain decides what is good and what is bad; what is
desirable and what is undesirable; and most important, what we deserve and what we don’t
deserve.
The Thinking Brain is objective and factual. The Feeling Brain is subjective and relative.
And no matter what we do, we can never translate one form of knowledge into the other.33 This
is the real problem of hope. It’s rare that we don’t understand intellectually how to cut back on
carbs, or wake up earlier, or stop smoking. It’s that somewhere inside our Feeling Brain, we have
decided that we don’t deserve to do those things, that we are unworthy of doing them. And that’s
why we feel so bad about them.
This feeling of unworthiness is usually the result of some bad shit happening to us at some
point. We suffer through some terrible stuff, and our Feeling Brain decides that we deserved
those bad experiences. Therefore, it sets out, despite the Thinking Brain’s better knowledge, to
repeat and reexperience that suffering.
This is the fundamental problem of self-control. This is the fundamental problem of hope—
not an uneducated Thinking Brain, but an uneducated Feeling Brain, a Feeling Brain that has
adopted and accepted poor value judgments about itself and the world. And this is the real work
of anything that even resembles psychological healing: getting our values straight with ourselves

so that we can get our values straight with the world.
Put another way, the problem isn’t that we don’t know how not to get punched in the face.
The problem is that, at some point, likely a long time ago, we got punched in face, and instead of
punching back, we decided we deserved it.

Chapter 3

Newton’s Laws of Emotion
The first time Isaac Newton got hit in the face, he was standing in a field. His uncle had been
explaining to him why wheat should be planted in diagonal rows, but Isaac wasn’t listening. He
was gazing into the sun, wondering what the light was made of.
He was seven years old.1
His uncle backhanded him so hard across his left cheek that Isaac’s sense of self temporarily
broke upon the ground on which his body fell. He lost any feeling of personal cohesion. And as
the parts of his psyche put themselves back together, some secret piece of himself remained in
the dirt, left behind in a place from which it would never be recovered.
Isaac’s father had died before he was born, and his mother soon abandoned her son to marry
some old rich guy the next village over. As a result, Isaac spent his formative years being
shuffled among uncles, cousins, and grandparents. No one particularly wanted him. Few knew
what to do with him. He was a burden. Love came difficultly, and usually not at all.
Isaac’s uncle was an uneducated drunk, but he did know how to count hedges and rows in
fields. It was his one intellectual skill, and because of this, he did it probably more often than he
needed to. Isaac often tagged along to these row-counting sessions because it was the only time
his uncle ever paid attention to him. And like water in a desert, any attention the boy got he
desperately soaked in.
As it turned out, the boy was a kind of prodigy. By age eight, he could project the amount of
feed required to sustain the sheep and pigs for the following season. By nine, he could rattle off
the top of his head calculations for hectares of wheat, barley, and potatoes.
By age ten, Isaac had decided that farming was stupid and instead turned his attention to
calculating the exact trajectory of the sun throughout the seasons. His uncle didn’t care about the
exact trajectory of the sun because it wouldn’t put food on the table—at least not directly—so,
again, he hit Isaac.
School didn’t make things any better. Isaac was pale and scrawny and absentminded. He
lacked social skills. He was into nerdy shit like sundials, Cartesian planes, and determining
whether the moon was actually a sphere. While the other kids played cricket or chased one
another through the woods, Isaac stood staring for hours into local streams, wondering how the
eyeball was capable of seeing light.
Isaac Newton’s early life was one hit after another. And with each blow, his Feeling Brain
learned to feel an immutable truth: that there must be something inherently wrong with him. Why
else would his parents have abandoned him? Why else would his peers ridicule him? What other
explanation for his near-constant solitude? While his Thinking Brain occupied itself drawing
fanciful graphs and charting the lunar eclipses, his Feeling Brain silently internalized the
knowledge that there was something fundamentally broken about this small English boy from
Lincolnshire.
One day, he wrote in his school notebook, “I am a little fellow. Pale and weak. There is no

room for me. Not in the house or in the bottom of hell. What can I do? What am I good for? I
cannot but weep.”2
Up until this point, everything you’ve read about Newton is true—or at least highly plausible.
But let’s pretend for a moment that there’s a parallel universe. And let’s say that in this parallel
universe there is another Isaac Newton, much like our own. He still comes from a broken and
abusive family. He still lives a life of angry isolation. He still prodigiously measures and
calculates everything he encounters.
But let’s say that instead of obsessively measuring and calculating the external, natural
world, this Parallel Universe Newton decides to obsessively measure and calculate the internal,
psychological world, the world of the human mind and heart.
This isn’t a huge leap of the imagination, as the victims of abuse are often the keenest
observers of human nature. For you and me, people-watching may be something fun to do on a
random Sunday in the park. But for the abused, it’s a survival skill. For them, violence might
erupt at any moment, therefore, they develop a keen Spidey sense to protect themselves. A lilt in
someone’s voice, the rise of an eyebrow, the depth of a sigh—anything can set off their internal
alarm.
So, let’s imagine this Parallel Universe Newton, this “Emo Newton,” turned his obsession
toward the people around him. He kept notebooks, cataloging all the observable behaviors of his
peers and family. He scribbled relentlessly, documenting every action, every word. He filled
hundreds of pages with inane observations of the kind of stuff people don’t even realize they do.
Emo Newton hoped that if measurement could be used to predict and control the natural world,
the shapes and configurations of the sun and moon and stars, then it should also be able to
predict and control the internal, emotional world.
And through his observations, Emo Newton realized something painful that we all kind of
know, but that few of us ever want to admit: that people are liars, all of us. We lie constantly and
habitually.3 We lie about important things and trifling things. And we usually don’t lie out of
malice—rather, we lie to others because we’re in such a habit of lying to ourselves.4
Isaac noted that light refracted through people’s hearts in ways that they themselves did not
seem to see; that people said they loved those whom they appeared to hate; professed to believe
one thing while doing another; imagined themselves righteous while committing acts of the
grandest dishonesty and cruelty. Yet, in their own minds, they somehow believed their actions to
be consistent and true.
Isaac decided that no one could be trusted. Ever. He calculated that his pain was inversely
proportional to the distance squared he put between himself and the world. Therefore, he kept to
himself, staying in no one’s orbit, spinning out and away from the gravitational tug of any other
human heart. He had no friends; nor, he decided, did he want any. He concluded that the world
was a bleak, wretched place and that the only value to his pathetic life was his ability to
document and calculate that wretchedness.
For all his surliness, Isaac certainly didn’t lack ambition. He wanted to know the trajectory of
men’s hearts, the velocity of their pain. He wished to know the force of their values and the mass
of their hopes. And most important, he wanted to understand the relationships among all these
elements.
He decided to write Newton’s Three Laws of Emotion.5

NEWTON’S FIRST LAW OF EMOTION

For Every Action, There Is an Equal and Opposite Emotional Reaction
Imagine that I punch you in the face. No reason. No justification. Just pure violence.
Your instinctual reaction might be to retaliate in some way. Maybe it’d be physical: you’d
punch me back. Maybe it’d be verbal: you’d call me a bunch of four-letter words. Or maybe your
retaliation would be social: you’d call the police or some other authority and have me punished
for assaulting you.
Regardless of your response, you would feel a rush of negative emotion directed toward me.
And rightly so—clearly, I’m an awful person. After all, the idea that I get to cause you pain with
no justification, without your deserving pain, generates a sense of injustice between us. A kind of
moral gap opens between us: the sense that one of us is inherently righteous, and the other is an
inferior piece of shit.6
Pain causes moral gaps. And it’s not just between people. If a dog bites you, your instinct is
to punish it. If you stub your toe on a coffee table, what do you do? You yell at the damn coffee
table. If your home is washed away in a flood, you are overcome with grief and become furious
at God, the universe, life itself.
These are moral gaps. They are a sense that something wrong has just happened and you (or
someone else) deserve to be made whole again. Wherever there is pain, there is always an
inherent sense of superiority/inferiority. And there’s always pain.
When confronted with moral gaps, we develop overwhelming emotions toward equalization,
or a return to moral equality. These desires for equalization take the form of a sense of deserving.
Because I punched you, you feel I deserve to be punched back or punished in some way. This
feeling (of my deserving pain) will cause you to have strong emotions about me (most likely
anger). You will also have strong emotions around the feeling that you didn’t deserve to be
punched, that you did no wrong, and that you deserve better treatment from me and everyone
else around you. These feelings might take the form of sadness, self-pity, or confusion.
This whole sense of “deserving” something is a value judgment we make in the face of a
moral gap. We decide that something is better than something else; that one person is more
righteous or just than another; that one event is less desirable than another. Moral gaps are where
our values are born.
Now, let’s pretend I apologize to you for punching you. I say, “Hey, reader, that was totally
unfair and, wow, I was way out of line. That will never, ever happen again. And as a symbol of
my overwhelming regret and guilt—here, I baked you a cake. Oh, and here’s a hundred bucks.
Enjoy.”
Let’s also pretend that this is somehow satisfying to you. You accept my apology and my
cake and the hundred dollars and genuinely feel that everything is fine. We’ve now “equalized.”
The moral gap that was between us is gone. I’ve “made up” for it. You might even say we’re
even—neither of us is a better or worse person than the other, neither of us deserves better or
worse treatment than the other any longer. We’re operating on the same moral plane.
Equalizing like this restores hope. It means that there’s nothing necessarily wrong with you
or wrong with the world. That you can go about your day with a sense of self-control, a hundred
bucks, and a sweet-ass cake.

Now let’s imagine another scenario. This time, instead of punching you, let’s say I buy you a
house.
Yes, reader, I just bought you a fucking house.
This will open up another moral gap between us. But instead of an overwhelming feeling of
wanting to equalize the pain I’ve caused you, you will instead experience an overwhelming
feeling of wanting to equalize the joy I’ve created. You might hug me, say “thank you” a
hundred times, give me a gift in return, or promise to babysit my cat from now until eternity.
Or, if you’re particularly well mannered (and have some self-control), you may even attempt
to refuse my offer to buy you a house because you recognize that it will open up a moral gap that
you will never be able to surmount. You may acknowledge this by saying to me, “Thank you, but
absolutely not. There’s no way for me ever to repay you.”
As with the negative moral gap, with the positive moral gap you will feel indebted to me, that
you “owe me” something, that I deserve something good or that you need to “make it up” to me
somehow. You will have intense feelings of gratitude and appreciation in my presence. You
might even shed a tear of joy. (Aw, reader!)
It’s our natural psychological inclination to equalize across moral gaps, to reciprocate
actions: positive for positive; negative for negative. The forces that impel us to fill those gaps are
our emotions. In this sense, every action demands an equal and opposite emotional reaction.
This is Newton’s First Law of Emotion.
Newton’s First Law is constantly dictating the flow of our lives because it is the algorithm by
which our Feeling Brain interprets the world.7 If a movie causes more pain than it relieves, you
become bored, or perhaps even angry. (Maybe you even attempt to equalize by demanding your
money back.) If your mother forgets your birthday, maybe you equalize by ignoring her for the
next six months. Or, if you’re more mature, you communicate your disappointment to her.8 If
your favorite sports team loses in a horrible way, you will feel compelled to attend fewer games,
or to cheer for them less. If you discover you have a talent for drawing, the admiration and
satisfaction you derive from your competence will inspire you to invest time, energy, emotion,
and money into the craft.9 If your country elects a bozo whom you can’t stand, you will feel a
disconnect with your nation and government and even other citizens. You will also feel as
though you are owed something in return for putting up with terrible policies.
Equalization is present in every experience because the drive to equalize is emotion itself.
Sadness is a feeling of powerlessness to make up for a perceived loss. Anger is the desire to
equalize through force and aggression. Happiness is feeling liberated from pain, while guilt is the
feeling that you deserve some pain that never arrived.10
This desire for equalization underlies our sense of justice. It’s been codified throughout the
ages into rules and laws, such as the Babylonian king Hammurabi’s classic “an eye for an eye,
and a tooth for a tooth,” or the biblical Golden Rule, “Do unto others what you would have done
unto you.” In evolutionary biology, it’s known as “reciprocal altruism,”11 and in game theory,
it’s called a “tit for tat” strategy.12
Newton’s First Law generates our sense of morality. It underlies our perceptions of fairness.
It is the bedrock of every human culture. And . . .
It is the operating system of the Feeling Brain.
While our Thinking Brain creates factual knowledge around observation and logic, the
Feeling Brain creates our values around our experiences of pain. Experiences that cause us pain
create a moral gap within our minds, and our Feeling Brain deems those experiences inferior and
undesirable. Experiences that relieve pain create a moral gap in the opposite direction, and our

Feeling Brain deems those experiences superior and desirable.
One way to think about it is that the Thinking Brain makes lateral connections between
events (sameness, contrasts, cause/effect, etc.), while the Feeling Brain makes hierarchical
connections (better/worse, more desirable/less desirable, morally superior/morally inferior).13
Our Thinking Brain thinks horizontally (how are these things related?), while our Feeling Brain
thinks vertically (which of these things is better/worse?). Our Thinking Brain decides how things
are, and our Feeling Brain decides how things ought to be.
When we have experiences, our Feeling Brain creates a sort of value hierarchy for them.14
It’s as though we have a massive bookshelf in our subconscious where the best and most
important experiences in life (with family, friends, burritos) are on the top shelf and the least
desirable experiences (death, taxes, indigestion) are on the bottom. Our Feeling Brain then makes
its decisions by simply pursuing experiences on the highest shelf possible.
Both brains have access to the value hierarchy. While the Feeling Brain determines what
shelf something is on, the Thinking Brain is able to point out how certain experiences are
connected and to suggest how the value hierarchy should be reorganized. This is essentially what
“growth” is: reprioritizing one’s value hierarchy in an optimal way.15
For example, I once had a friend who was probably the hardest partier I’d ever known. She
would stay out all night and then go straight to work from the party in the morning, with zero
hours of sleep. She thought it lame to wake up early or stay home on a Friday night. Her value
hierarchy went something like this:
Really awesome DJs
Really good drugs
Work
Sleep
One could predict her behavior solely from this hierarchy. She’d rather work than sleep.
She’d rather party and get fucked up than work. And everything was about the music.
Then she did one of those volunteer abroad things, where young people spend a couple of
months working with orphans in a Third World country and—well, that changed everything. The
experience was so emotionally powerful that it completely rearranged her value hierarchy. Her
hierarchy now looked something like this:
Saving children from unnecessary suffering
Work
Sleep
Parties
And suddenly, as if by magic, the parties stopped being fun. Why? Because they interfered
with her new top value: helping suffering kids. She switched careers and was all about work
now. She stayed in most nights. She didn’t drink or do drugs. She slept well—after all, she
needed tons of energy to save the world.
Her party friends looked at her and pitied her; they judged her by their values, which were
her old values. Poor party girl has to go to bed and get up for work every morning. Poor party
girl can’t stay out doing MDMA every weekend.
But here’s the funny thing about value hierarchies: when they change, you don’t actually lose
anything. It’s not that my friend decided to start giving up the parties for her career, it’s that the

parties stopped being fun. That’s because “fun” is the product of our value hierarchies. When we
stop valuing something, it ceases to be fun or interesting to us. Therefore, there is no sense of
loss, no sense of missing out when we stop doing it. On the contrary, we look back and wonder
how we ever spent so much time caring about such a silly, trivial thing, why we wasted so much
energy on issues and causes that didn’t matter. These pangs of regret or embarrassment are good;
they signify growth. They are the product of our achieving our hopes.

NEWTON’S SECOND LAW OF EMOTION

Our Self-Worth Equals the Sum of Our Emotions Over Time
Let’s return to the punching example, except this time, let’s pretend I exist within this magical
force field that prevents any consequences from ever befalling me. You can’t punch me back.
You can’t say anything to me. You can’t even say anything to anyone else about me. I am
impervious—an all-seeing, all-powerful, evil ass-face.
Newton’s First Law of Emotion states that when someone (or something) causes us pain, a
moral gap opens up and our Feeling Brain summons up icky emotions to motivate us to equalize.
But what if that equalization never comes? What if someone (or something) makes us feel
awful, yet we are incapable of ever retaliating or reconciling? What if we feel powerless to do
anything to equalize or “make things right?” What if my force field is just too powerful for you?
When moral gaps persist for a long enough time, they normalize.16 They become our default
expectation. They lodge themselves into our value hierarchy. If someone hits us and we’re never
able to hit him back, eventually our Feeling Brain will come to a startling conclusion:
We deserve to be hit.
After all, if we didn’t deserve it, we would have been able to equalize, right? The fact that we
could not equalize means that there must be something inherently inferior about us, and/or
something inherently superior about the person who hit us.
This, too, is part of our hope response. Because if equalization seems impossible, our Feeling
Brain comes up with the next best thing: giving in, accepting defeat, judging itself to be inferior
and of low value. When someone harms us, our immediate reaction is usually “He is shit, and I
am righteous.” But if we’re not able to equalize and act on that righteousness, our Feeling Brain
will believe the only alternative explanation: “I am shit, and he is righteous.”17
This surrender to persisting moral gaps is a fundamental part of our Feeling Brain’s nature.
And it is Newton’s Second Law of Emotion: How we come to value everything in life relative to
ourselves is the sum of our emotions over time.
This surrender to and acceptance of ourselves as inherently inferior is often referred to as
shame or low self-worth. Call it what you want, the result is the same: Life kicks you around a
little bit, and you feel powerless to stop it. Therefore, your Feeling Brain concludes that you
must deserve it.
Of course, the reverse moral gap must be true as well. If we’re given a bunch of stuff without
earning it (participation trophies and grade inflation and gold medals for coming in ninth place),
we (falsely) come to believe ourselves inherently superior to what we actually are. We therefore
develop a deluded version of high self-worth, or, as it’s more commonly known, being an
asshole.
Self-worth is contextual. If you were bullied for your geeky glasses and funny nose as a
child, your Feeling Brain will “know” that you’re a dweeb, even if you grow up to be a flaming
sexpot of hotness. People who are raised in strict religious environments and are punished
harshly for their sexual impulses often grow up with their Feeling Brain “knowing” that sex is
wrong, even though their Thinking Brain has long worked out that sex is natural and totally
awesome.
High and low self-worth appear different on the surface, but they are two sides of the same

counterfeit coin. Because whether you feel as though you’re better than the rest of the world or
worse than the rest of the world, the same thing is true: you’re imagining yourself as something
special, something separate from the world.
A person who believes he deserves special treatment because of how great he is isn’t so
different from someone who believes she deserves special treatment because of how shitty she is.
Both are narcissistic. Both think they’re special. Both think the world should make exceptions
and cater to their values and feelings over others’.
Narcissists will oscillate between feelings of superiority and inferiority.18 Either everyone
loves them or everyone hates them. Everything is amazing, or everything is fucked. An event
was either the best moment of their lives or traumatizing. With the narcissist, there’s no inbetween, because to recognize the nuanced, indecipherable reality before him would require that
he relinquish his privileged view that he is somehow special. Mostly, narcissists are unbearable
to be around. They make everything about them and demand that people around them do the
same.
You’ll see this high/low-self-worth switcheroo everywhere if you keep an eye out for it: mass
murderers, dictators, whiny kids, your obnoxious aunt who ruins Christmas every year. Hitler
preached that the world treated Germany so poorly after World War I only because it was afraid
of German superiority.19 And in California more recently, one disturbed gunman justified trying
to shoot up a sorority house with the fact that while women hooked up with “inferior” men he
was forced to remain a virgin.20
You can even find it within yourself, if you’re being honest. The more insecure you are about
something, the more you’ll fly back and forth between delusional feelings of superiority (“I’m
the best!”) and delusional feelings of inferiority (“I’m garbage!”)
Self-worth is an illusion.21 It’s a psychological construct that our Feeling Brain spins in order
to predict what will help it and what will hurt it. Ultimately, we must feel something about
ourselves in order to feel something about the world, and without those feelings, it’s impossible
for us to find hope.
We all possess some degree of narcissism. It’s inevitable, as everything we ever know or
experience has happened to us or been learned by us. The nature of our consciousness dictates
that everything happen through us. It’s only natural, then, that our immediate assumption is that
we are at the center of everything—because we are at the center of everything we experience.22
We all overestimate our skills and intentions and underestimate the skills and intentions of
others. Most people believe that they are of above-average intelligence and have an aboveaverage ability at most things, especially when they are not and do not.23 We all tend to believe
that we’re more honest and ethical than we actually are.24 We will each, given the chance, delude
ourselves into believing that what’s good for us is also good for everyone else.25 When we screw
up, we tend to assume it was some happy accident.26 But when someone else screws up, we
immediately rush to judge that person’s character.27
Persistent low-level narcissism is natural, but it’s also likely at the root of many of our
sociopolitical problems. This is not a right-wing or a left-wing problem. This is not an older
generation or younger generation problem. This is not an Eastern or Western problem.
This is a human problem.
Every institution will decay and corrupt itself. Each person, given more power and fewer
restraints, will predictably bend that power to suit himself. Every individual will blind herself to
her own flaws while seeking out the glaring flaws of others.
Welcome to Earth. Enjoy your stay.

Our Feeling Brains warp reality in such a way so that we believe that our problems and pain
are somehow special and unique in the world, despite all evidence to the contrary. Human beings
require this level of built-in narcissism because narcissism is our last line of defense against the
Uncomfortable Truth. Because, let’s be real: People suck, and life is exceedingly difficult and
unpredictable. Most of us are winging it as we go, if not completely lost. And if we didn’t have
some false belief in our own superiority (or inferiority), a deluded belief that we’re extraordinary
at something, we’d line up to swan-dive off the nearest bridge. Without a little bit of that
narcissistic delusion, without that perpetual lie we tell ourselves about our specialness, we’d
likely give up hope.
But our inherent narcissism comes at a cost. Whether you believe you’re the best in the world
or the worst in the world, one thing is also true: you are separate from the world.
And it’s this separateness that ultimately perpetuates unnecessary suffering.28

NEWTON’S THIRD LAW OF EMOTION

Your Identity Will Stay Your Identity Until a New Experience Acts Against It
Here’s a common sob story. Boy cheats on girl. Girl is heartbroken. Girl despairs. Boy leaves
girl, and girl’s pain lingers for years afterward. Girl feels like shit about herself. And in order for
her Feeling Brain to maintain hope, her Thinking Brain must pick one of two explanations. She
can believe either that (a) all boys are shit or (b) she is shit.29
Well, shit. Neither of those is a good option.
But she decides to go with option (a), “all boys are shit,” because, after all, she still has to
live with herself. This choice isn’t made consciously, mind you. It just kind of happens.30
Jump ahead a few years. Girl meets another boy. This boy isn’t shit. In fact, this boy is the
opposite of shit. He’s pretty rad. And sweet. And cares. Like, really, truly cares.
But girl is in a conundrum. How can this boy be real? How can he be true? After all, she
knows that all boys are shit. It’s true. It must be true; she has the emotional scars to prove it.
Sadly, the realization that this boy is not shit is too painful for girl’s Feeling Brain to handle,
so she convinces herself that he is, indeed, shit. She nitpicks his tiniest flaws. She notices every
errant word, every misplaced gesture, every awkward touch. She zeroes in on his most
insignificant mistakes until they stand bright in her mind like a flashing strobe light screaming,
“Run away! Save yourself!”
So, she does. She runs. And she runs in the most horrible of ways. She leaves him for another
boy. After all, all boys are shit. So, what’s trading one piece of shit for another? It means
nothing.
Boy is heartbroken. Boy despairs. The pain lingers for years and morphs into shame. And
this shame puts the boy in a tough position. Because now his Thinking Brain must make a
choice: either (a) all girls are shit or (b) he is shit.
Our values aren’t just collections of feelings. Our values are stories.
When our Feeling Brain feels something, our Thinking Brain sets to work constructing a
narrative to explain that something. Losing your job doesn’t just suck; you’ve constructed an
entire narrative around it: Your asshole boss wronged you after years of loyalty! You gave
yourself to that company! And what did you get in return?
Our narratives are sticky, clinging to our minds and hanging onto our identities like tight, wet
clothes. We carry them around with us and define ourselves by them. We trade narratives with
others, looking for people whose narratives match our own. We call these people friends, allies,
good people. And those who carry narratives that contradict our own? We call them evil.
Our narratives about ourselves and the world are fundamentally about (a) something or
someone’s value and (b) whether that something/someone deserves that value. All narratives are
constructed in this way:
Bad thing happens to person/thing, and he/she/it doesn’t deserve it.
Good thing happens to person/thing, and he/she/it doesn’t deserve it.
Good thing happens to person/thing, and he/she/it deserves it.
Bad thing happens to person/thing, and he/she/it deserves it.

Every book, myth, fable, history—all human meaning that’s communicated and remembered
is merely the daisy-chaining of these little value-laden narratives, one after the other, from now
until eternity.31
These narratives we invent for ourselves around what’s important and what’s not, what is
deserving and what is not—these stories stick with us and define us, they determine how we fit
ourselves into the world and with each other. They determine how we feel about ourselves—
whether we deserve a good life or not, whether we deserve to be loved or not, whether we
deserve success or not—and they define what we know and understand about ourselves.
This network of value-based narratives is our identity. When you think to yourself, I’m a
pretty bad-ass boat captain, har-de-har, that is a narrative you’ve constructed to define yourself
and to know yourself. It’s a component of your walking, talking self that you introduce to others
and plaster all over your Facebook page. You captain boats, and you do it damn well, and
therefore you deserve good things.
But here’s the funny thing: when you adopt these little narratives as your identity, you protect
them and react emotionally to them as though they were an inherent part of you. The same way
that getting punched will cause a violent emotional reaction, someone coming up and saying
you’re a shitty boat captain will produce a similarly negative emotional reaction, because we
react to protect the metaphysical body just as we protect the physical.
Our identities snowball through our lives, accumulating more and more values and meaning
as they tumble along. You are close with your mom growing up, and that relationship brings you
hope, so you construct a story in your mind that comes to partly define you, just as your thick
hair or your brown eyes or your creepy toenails define you. Your mom is a huge part of your life.
Your mom is an amazing woman. You owe everything to your mom . . . and other shit people
say at the Academy Awards. You then protect that piece of your identity as if it were a part of
you. Someone comes along and talks shit about your mom, and you absolutely lose your mind
and start breaking things.
Then that experience creates a new narrative and new value in your mind. You, you decide,
have anger issues . . . especially around your mother. And now that becomes an inherent part of
your identity.
And on and on it goes.
The longer we’ve held a value, the deeper inside the snowball it is and the more fundamental
it is to how we see ourselves and how we see the world. Like interest on a bank loan, our values
compound over time, growing stronger and coloring future experiences. It’s not just the bullying
from when you were in grade school that fucks you up. It’s the bullying plus all the self-loathing
and narcissism you brought to decades worth of future relationships, causing them all to fail, that
adds up over time.
Psychologists don’t know much for certain,32 but one thing they definitely do know is that
childhood trauma fucks us up.33 This “snowball effect” of early values is why our childhood
experiences, both good and bad, have long-lasting effects on our identities and generate the
fundamental values that go on to define much of our lives. Your early experiences become your
core values, and if your core values are fucked up, they create a domino effect of suckage that
extends through the years, infecting experiences large and small with their toxicity.
When we’re young, we have tiny and fragile identities. We’ve experienced little. We’re
completely dependent on our caretakers for everything, and inevitably, they’re going to mess it
up. Neglect or harm can cause extreme emotional reactions, resulting in large moral gaps that are
never equalized. Dad walks out, and your three-year-old Feeling Brain decides that you were

never lovable in the first place. Mom abandons you for some rich new husband, and you decide
that intimacy doesn’t exist, that no one can ever be trusted.
No wonder Newton was such a cranky loner.34
And the worst thing is, the longer we’ve held onto these narratives, the less aware we are that
we have them. They become the background noise of our thoughts, the interior decoration of our
minds. Despite being arbitrary and completely made up, they seem not only natural but
inevitable.35
The values we pick up throughout our lives crystallize and form a sediment on top of our
personality.36 The only way to change our values is to have experiences contrary to our values.
And any attempt to break free from those values through new or contrary experiences will
inevitably be met with pain and discomfort.37 This is why there is no such thing as change
without pain, no growth without discomfort. It’s why it is impossible to become someone new
without first grieving the loss of who you used to be.
Because when we lose our values, we grieve the death of those defining narratives as though
we’ve lost a part of ourselves—because we have lost a part of ourselves. We grieve the same
way we would grieve the loss of a loved one, the loss of a job, a house, a community, a spiritual
belief, or a friendship. These are all defining, fundamental parts of you. And when they are torn
away from you, the hope they offered your life is also torn away, leaving you exposed, once
again, to the Uncomfortable Truth.
There are two ways to heal yourself—that is, to replace old, faulty values with better, healthier
values. The first is to reexamine the experiences of your past and rewrite the narratives around
them. Wait, did he punch me because I’m an awful person; or is he the awful person?
Reexamining the narratives of our lives allows us to have a do-over, to decide: you know,
maybe I wasn’t such a great boat captain after all, and that’s fine. Often, with time, we realize
that what we used to believe was important about the world actually isn’t. Other times, we extend
the story to get a clearer view of our self-worth—oh, she left me because some asshole left her
and she felt ashamed and unworthy around intimacy—and suddenly, that breakup is easier to
swallow.
The other way to change your values is to begin writing the narratives of your future self, to
envision what life would be like if you had certain values or possessed a certain identity. By
visualizing the future we want for ourselves, we allow our Feeling Brain to try on those values
for size, to see what they feel like before we make the final purchase. Eventually, once we’ve
done this enough, the Feeling Brain becomes accustomed to the new values and starts to believe
them.
This sort of “future projection” is usually taught in the worst of ways. “Imagine you’re
fucking rich and own a fleet of yachts! Then it will come true!”38
Sadly, that kind of visualization is not replacing a current unhealthy value (materialism) with
a better one. It’s just masturbating to your current value. Real change would entail fantasizing
what not wanting yachts in the first place would feel like.
Fruitful visualization should be a little bit uncomfortable. It should challenge you and be
difficult to fathom. If it’s not, then it means that nothing is changing.
The Feeling Brain doesn’t know the difference between past, present, and future; that’s the
Thinking Brain’s domain.39 And one of the strategies our Thinking Brain uses to nudge the
Feeling Brain into the correct lane of life is asking “what if” questions: What if you hated boats
and instead spent your time helping disabled kids? What if you didn’t have to prove anything to

the people in your life for them to like you? What if people’s unavailability has more to do with
them than it does with you?
Other times, you can just tell your Feeling Brain stories that might or might not be true but
that feel true. Jocko Willink, former Navy SEAL and author, writes in his book Discipline
Equals Freedom: Field Manual that he wakes up at four thirty every morning because he
imagines his enemy is somewhere out there in the world.40 He doesn’t know where, but he
assumes that his enemy wants to kill him. And he realizes that if he’s awake before his enemy,
that gives him an advantage. Willink developed this narrative for himself while serving in the
Iraq War, where there were actual enemies who did want to kill him. But he has maintained that
narrative since returning to civilian life.
Objectively, the narrative Willink creates for himself makes no fucking sense. Enemy?
Where? But figuratively, emotionally, it is incredibly powerful. Willink’s Feeling Brain still
buys into it, and it still gets Willink up every damn morning before some of us are done drinking
from the night before. That is the illusion of self-control.
Without these narratives—without developing a clear vision of the future we desire, of the
values we want to adopt, of the identities we want to shed or step into—we are forever doomed
to repeat the failures of our past pain. The stories of our past define our identity. The stories of
our future define our hopes. And our ability to step into those narratives and live them, to make
them reality, is what gives our lives meaning.

Emotional Gravity
Emo Newton sat alone in his childhood bedroom. It was dark outside. He didn’t know how long
he had been awake, what time it was, or what day it was. He had been alone and working for
weeks now. Food that his family had left for him sat uneaten by the door, rotting.
He took out a blank piece of paper and drew a large circle on it. He then marked points along
the edges of the circle and, with dotted lines, indicated the pull of each dot toward the center.
Beneath this, he wrote, “There is an emotional gravity to our values: we attract those into our
orbit who value the same things we do, and instinctively repel, as if by reverse magnetism, those
whose values are contrary to our own.41 These attractions form large orbits of like-minded
people around the same principle. Each falls along the same path, circling and revolving around
the same cherished thing.”
He then drew another circle, adjacent to the first. The two circles’ edges nearly touched.
From there, he drew lines of tension between the edges of each circle, the places where the
gravity pulled in both directions, disrupting the perfect symmetry of each orbit. He then wrote:
“Large swaths of people coalesce together, forming tribes and communities based on the
similar evaluations of their emotional histories. You, sir, may value science. I, too, value science.
Therefore, there is an emotional magnetism between us. Our values attract one another and cause
us to fall perpetually into each other’s orbit, in a metaphysical dance of friendship. Our values
align, and our cause becomes one!
“But! Let’s say that one gentleman sees value in Puritanism and another in Anglicanism.
They are inhabitants of two closely related yet different gravities. This causes each to disrupt the
other’s orbit, cause tension within the value hierarchies, challenge the other’s identity, and thus
generate negative emotions that will push them apart and put their causes at odds.
“This emotional gravity, I declare, is the fundamental organization of all human conflict and
endeavor.”

At this, Isaac took out another page and drew a series of circles of differing sizes. “The
stronger we hold a value,” he wrote, “that is, the stronger we determine something as superior or
inferior than all else, the stronger its gravity, the tighter its orbit, and the more difficult it is for
outside forces to disrupt its path and purpose.42
“Our strongest values therefore demand either the affinity or the antipathy of others—the
more people there are who share some value, the more those people begin to congeal and
organize themselves into a single, coherent body around that value: scientists with scientists,
clergy with clergy. People who love the same thing love each other. People who hate the same
thing also love each other. And people who love or hate different things hate each other. All
human systems eventually reach equilibrium by clustering and conforming into constellations of
mutually shared value systems—people come together, altering and modifying their own
personal narratives until their narratives are one and the same, and the personal identity thus
becomes the group identity.
“Now, you may be saying, ‘But, my good man, Newton! Don’t most people value the same
things? Don’t most people simply want a bit of bread and a safe place to sleep at night?’ And to
that, I say you are correct, my friend!
“All peoples are more the same than they are different. We all mostly want the same things
out of life. But those slight differences generate emotion, and emotion generates a sense of
importance. Therefore, we come to perceive our differences as disproportionately more
important than our similarities. And this is the true tragedy of man. That we are doomed to
perpetual conflict over the slight difference.43
“This theory of emotional gravitation, the coherence and attraction of like values, explains
the history of peoples.44 Different parts of the world have different geographic factors. One
region may be hard and rugged and well defended from invaders. Its people would then naturally
value neutrality and isolation. This would then become their group identity. Another region may
overflow with food and wine, and its people would come to value hospitality, festivities, and
family. This, too, would become their identity. Another region may be arid and a difficult place
to live, but with wide-open vistas connecting it to many distant lands, its people would come to
value authority, strong military leadership, and absolute dominion. This, too, is their identity.45
“And just as the individual protects her identity through beliefs, rationalizations, and biases,
communities, tribes, and nations protect their identities the same way.46 These cultures
eventually solidify themselves into nations, which then expand, bringing more and more peoples
into the umbrella of their value systems. Eventually, these nations will bump up against each
other, and the contradictory values will collide.
“Most people do not value themselves above their cultural and group values. Therefore,
many people are willing to die for their highest values—for their family, their loved ones, their
nation, their god. And because of this willingness to die for their values, these collisions of
culture will inevitably result in war.47
“War is but a terrestrial test of hope. The country or people who have adopted values that
maximize the resources and hopes of its peoples the best will inevitably become the victor. The
more a nation conquers neighboring peoples, the more the people of that conquering nation come
to feel that they deserve to dominate their fellow men, and the more they will see their nation’s
values as the true guiding lights of humanity. The supremacy of those winning values then lives
on, and the values are written up and lauded in our histories, and go on to be retold in stories,
passed down to give future generations hope. Eventually, when those values cease to be
effective, they will lose out to the values of another, newer nation, and history will continue on, a

new era unfolding.
“This, I declare, is the form of human progress.”
Newton finished writing. He placed his theory of emotional gravitation on the same stack with
his three Laws of Emotion and then paused to reflect on his discoveries.
And in that quiet, dark moment, Isaac Newton looked at the circles on the page and had an
upsetting realization: he had no orbit. Through years of trauma and social failure, he had
voluntarily separated himself from everything and everyone, like a lone star flung on its own
trajectory, unobstructed and uninfluenced by the gravitational pull of any system.
He realized that he valued no one—not even himself—and this brought him an
overwhelming sense of loneliness and grief, because no amount of logic and calculation could
ever compensate for the gnawing desperation of his Feeling Brain’s never-ending struggle to find
hope in this world.
I would love to tell you that Parallel Universe Newton, or Emo Newton, overcame his sadness
and solitude. I would love to tell you that he learned to value himself and others. But like our
universe’s Isaac Newton, Parallel Universe Newton would spend the rest of his days alone,
grumpy, and miserable.
The questions both Newtons answered that summer of 1666 had perplexed philosophers and
scientists for generations. Yet, in a matter of a few months, this cantankerous, antisocial twentythree-year-old had uncovered the mystery, had cracked the code. And there, on the frontiers of
intellectual discovery, he tossed his findings aside to a musty and forgotten corner of a cramped
study, in a remote backwater village a day’s ride north of London.
And there, his discoveries would remain, hidden to the world, collecting dust.48

Chapter 4

How to Make All Your Dreams Come True
Imagine this: it’s 2:00 a.m. and you’re still awake on the couch, staring bleary-eyed and foggybrained at the television. Why? You don’t know. Inertia simply makes it easier to sit there and
keep watching than to get up and go to bed. So, you watch.
Perfect. This is how I get you: when you’re feeling apathetic and lost and completely passive
in the face of your fate. Nobody sits up staring at a TV at 2:00 a.m. if they have important shit to
do the next day. Nobody struggles with the will to move their ass off the couch for hours on end
unless they’re having some sort of inner crisis of hope. And it’s exactly this crisis that I want to
speak to.
I appear on your TV screen. I’m a whirlwind of energy. There are loud, obnoxious colors,
cheesy sound effects. I’m practically shouting. Yet, somehow, my smile is easy and relaxed. I’m
comforting. It’s as though I’m making eye contact with you and only you:
“What if I told you that I could solve all your problems?” I say.
Pfft, puh-lease, you think. You don’t know the half of my problems, buddy.
“What if I told you I know how to make all your dreams come true?”
Riiiiight, and I’m the fucking tooth fairy.
“Look, I know how you feel,” I say.
Nobody knows how I feel, you reflexively tell yourself, surprised at how automatic the
response is.
“I, too, once felt lost,” I say. “I felt alone, isolated, hopeless. I, too, used to lie awake at night
for no particular reason, wondering if there was something wrong with me, wondering what was
this invisible force standing between myself and my dreams. And I know that’s what you’re
feeling, too. That you’ve somehow lost something. You just don’t know what.”
In truth, I say these things because they are experienced by everybody. They are a fact of the
human condition. We all feel powerless to equalize with the inherent guilt that comes with our
existence. We all suffer and are victimized to varying degrees, especially when we’re young.
And we all spend a lifetime trying to compensate for that suffering.
And in moments of our life when things aren’t going so well, this makes us despair.
But like most people struggling, you’ve enveloped yourself so much in your pain that you’ve
forgotten that pain is common, and that your strife is not uniquely yours—on the contrary, it’s
universal. And because you’ve forgotten this, you feel as if I’m speaking directly to you; as if, by
some magical power, I’m peering into your soul and reading back to you the contents of your
heart. For this, you sit up and at attention.
“Because,” I repeat, “I have the solution to all your problems. I can make all your dreams
come true.” Now I’m pointing, and my finger looks gigantic on your TV screen. “I have all the
answers. I have the secret of everlasting happiness and eternal life, and it’s this . . .”
What I go on to say is so outlandish, so ridiculous, so absolutely perverse and cynical that
you actually think it might be true. The problem is, you want to believe me. You need to believe

me. I represent the hope and salvation your Feeling Brain desperately craves, that it needs. So,
slowly, your Thinking Brain comes to the conclusion that my idea is so batshit crazy that it just
might work.
As the infomercial drags on, that existential need to find meaning somewhere, anywhere,
beats down your psychological defenses and lets me in. After all, I have demonstrated an
uncanny knowledge of your pain, a backdoor entrance to your secret truth, a deep vein traveling
through your heart. You then realize that in between all my big white teeth and shouty words,
I’ve spoken to you: I was once just as fucked as you . . . and I found my way out. Come with me.
I keep going. I’m on a roll now. The camera angles are switching back and forth, grabbing
me now from the side, now from the front. Suddenly, there’s a studio audience in front of me.
They’re wrapped up in every word I say. A woman is crying. A man’s jaw drops. And yours
drops with it. I’m all up in your shit now. I will give you permanent fulfillment, motherfucker. I
will fill any gap, plug any hole. Just sign up for one low price. What is happiness worth to you?
What is hope worth to you? Act now, fucker.
Sign up. Today.
With that, you grab your phone. You go to the website. You put in the digits.
Truth and salvation and everlasting happiness. It’s all yours. It’s coming to you. Are you
ready?

HOW TO START YOUR OWN RELIGION

An Introduction to a Proven System That Will Help You Achieve Everlasting Bliss
and Eternal Salvation!
(OR YOUR MONEY BACK)

Welcome, and congratulations on taking the first step to making all your dreams come true! By
the end of this course you will have solved all your life’s problems. You will live a life of
abundance and freedom. You will be surrounded by adoring friends and loved ones.
Guaranteed!*
It’s so simple, anyone can do it. No education or certification required. All you need is an
internet connection and a functioning keyboard, and you, too, can create your very own religion.
Yes, you heard me right. You, too, can start your very own religion—TODAY—and begin
reaping the benefits of the thousands of mindlessly devoted followers who will lavish on you
unconditional adoration, financial gifts, and more social media likes than you know what to do
with.
In this so-simple-anyone-can-do-it six-step program, we will cover:
Belief systems. Do you want your religion to be spiritual or secular? Past-focused or future-focused? Do you want it to be
violent or nonviolent? These are all important questions, but don’t worry, only I have the answers.
How to find your first followers. And more important: what do you want your followers to be? Rich? Poor? Male? Female?
Vegan? I have the inside scoop!
Rituals, rituals, rituals! Eat this. Stand there. Recite that. Bow and kneel and clap your hands! Do the hokey pokey and turn
yourself around! That’s what it’s all about! The most enjoyable part of religion is coming up with dumb stuff that you all
agree somehow means something. I will provide you with a complete guide to developing the hippest, coolest rituals on the
block. All the kids will be talking about it—mainly because they’ll be forced to.
How to choose a scapegoat. No religion is complete without a common enemy upon which to project one’s inner turmoil. Life
is messy, but why deal with your problems when you can just blame somebody else for them? That’s right, you’ll discover
the best way to choose an evil boogeyman (or boogeywoman!) and how to convince your followers to hate him/her. Nothing
unites us like hating the same enemy. Get your assault rifles ready!
And finally, how to make money. Why start a religion if you don’t profit from it? My guide will give you all the nitty-gritty
details on how to milk the most out of your followers. Whether you’re into money, fame, political power, or blood orgies,
I’ve got you covered!

Look, we all need communities to build hope. And we all need hope to not go utterly fucking
insane and start snorting bath salts. Religions are the basis for that communal hope. And we’re
going to learn how to build them from scratch.
Religions are a beautiful thing. When you get enough people together with the same values,
they behave in ways they never would when alone. Their hope amplifies in a sort of network
effect, and the social validation of being part of a group hijacks their Thinking Brains and lets
their Feeling Brains run wild.1
Religions bring groups of people together to mutually validate one another and make one
another feel important. It’s a big silent agreement that if we all come together under some shared
purpose, we will feel important and worthy, and the Uncomfortable Truth will be just that much
farther away.2
This is hugely satisfying psychologically. People just lose their shit! And best of all, they
become highly suggestible. Paradoxically, it’s only in a group environment that the individual
has no control, that he gains the perception of perfect self-control.

The danger of this immediate access to the Feeling Brain, though, is that large groups of
people tend to do highly impulsive and irrational shit. So, on the one hand, people get to feel
whole, like they’re understood and loved. On the other hand, they sometimes transform into
murderous, angry mobs.3
This guide will take you through the details of establishing your own religion so you can reap
the benefits of thousands of suggestible followers. Let’s get started.

HOW TO START YOUR OWN RELIGION

Step One: Sell Hope to the Hopeless
I’ll never forget the first time someone told me I had blood on my hands. I remember it as if it
were yesterday.
It was 2005, a sunny, crisp morning in Boston, Massachusetts. I was a university student then
and walking to class, minding my own business, when I saw a group of kids holding up pictures
of the 9/11 terrorist attacks with captions that read, “America Deserved It.”
Now, I don’t consider myself the most patriotic person by any stretch of the imagination, but
it seems to me that anyone holding such a sign in broad daylight immediately becomes a highly
punchable person.
I stopped and engaged the kids, asking what they were doing. They had a little table set up
with a smattering of pamphlets on top. One had Dick Cheney with devil’s horns drawn on him
and the words “Mass Murderer” written beneath. Another had George W. Bush with a Hitler
mustache.
The students were part of the LaRouche Youth Movement, a group started by the far-left
ideologue Lyndon LaRouche in New Hampshire. His acolytes would spend countless hours
standing around college campuses in the Northeast, handing out flyers and pamphlets to
susceptible college kids. And when I came upon them, it took me all of ten seconds to figure out
what they actually were: a religion.
That’s right. They were an ideological religion: an antigovernment, anticapitalist, anti–old
people, antiestablishment religion. They argued that the international world order, from top to
bottom, was corrupt. They argued that the Iraq War had been instigated for no other reason than
that Bush’s friends wanted more money. They argued that terrorism and mass shootings didn’t
exist, that such events were simply highly coordinated governmental efforts to control the
population. Don’t worry right-wing friends, years later, they would draw the same Hitler
mustaches and make the same claims about Obama—if that makes you feel any better. (It
shouldn’t.)
What the LaRouche Youth Movement (LYM) does is pure genius. It finds disaffected and
agitated college students (usually young men), kids who are both scared and angry (scared at the
sudden responsibility they’ve been forced to take on and angry at how uncompromising and
disappointing it is to be an adult) and then preach one simple message to them: “It’s not your
fault.”
Yes, young one, you thought it was Mom and Dad’s fault, but it’s not their fault. Nope. And I
know you thought it was your shitty professors and overpriced college’s fault. Nope. Not theirs,
either. You probably even thought it was the government’s fault. Close, but still no.
See, it’s the system’s fault, that grand, vague entity you’ve always heard about.
This was the faith the LYM was selling: if we could just overthrow “the system,” then
everything would be okay. No more war. No more suffering. No more injustice.
Remember that in order to feel hope, we need to feel there’s a better future out there (values);
we need to feel as though we are capable of getting to that better future (self-control); and we
need to find other people who share our values and support our efforts (community).
Young adulthood is a period when many people struggle with values, control, and

community. For the first time in their lives, kids are allowed to decide who they want to be. Do
they want to become a doctor? Study business? Take a psychology course? The options can be
crippling.4 And the inevitable frustration causes a lot of young people to question their values
and lose hope.
In addition, young adults struggle with self-control.5 For the first time in their lives, they
don’t have some authority figure watching over them 24/7. On the one hand, this can be
liberating, exciting. On the other, they are now responsible for their own decisions. And if they
kind of suck at getting themselves out of bed on time, going to their classes or a job, and
studying enough, it’s tough to admit that there’s no one to blame but themselves.
And finally, young people are particularly preoccupied with finding and fitting into a
community.6 Not only is this important for their emotional development, but it also helps them
find and solidify an identity for themselves.7
People like Lyndon LaRouche capitalize on lost and aimless young people. LaRouche gave
them a convoluted political explanation to justify how disaffected they felt. He gave them a sense
of control and empowerment by outlining a way (supposedly) to change the world. And finally,
he gave them a community where they “fit in” and know who they are.
Therefore, he gave them hope.8
“Don’t you think this is taking it a little too far?” I asked the LYM students that day, pointing
to the pictures of the World Trade Center towers featured on their pamphlets.9
“No way, man. I say we’re not taking it far enough!” one of the kids replied.
“Look, I didn’t vote for Bush, and I don’t agree with the Iraq War, either, but—”
“It doesn’t matter who you vote for! A vote for anyone is a vote for the corrupt and
oppressive system! You have blood on your hands!”
“Excuse me?”
I didn’t even know how to punch someone, yet I found myself balling my hands into fists.
Who the fuck did this guy think he was?
“By participating in the system, you are perpetuating it,” the kid continued, “and therefore
are complicit in the murder of millions of innocent civilians around the world. Here, read this.”
He shoved a pamphlet at me. I glanced at it, turned it over.
“That’s fucking stupid,” I said.
Our “discussion” went on like this for another few minutes. Back then, I didn’t know any
better. I still thought stuff like this was about reason and evidence, not feelings and values. And
values cannot be changed through reason, only through experience.
Eventually, after I had gotten good and pissed off, I decided to leave. As I started walking
off, the kid tried to get me to sign up for a free seminar. “You need to have an open mind, man,”
he said. “The truth is scary.”
I looked back and replied with a Carl Sagan quote I had once read on an internet forum: “I
think your mind is so open your brain fell out!”10
I felt smart and smug. He, presumably, felt smart and smug. No minds were changed that
day.
We are the most impressionable when things are at their worst.11 When our life is falling apart, it
signifies that our values have failed us, and we’re grasping in the dark for new values to replace
them. One religion falls and opens up space for the next. People who lose faith in their spiritual
God will look for a worldly God. People who lose their family will give themselves away to their
race, creed, or nation. People who lose faith in their government or country will look to extremist

ideologies to give them hope.12
There’s a reason that all the major religions in the world have a history of sending
missionaries to the poorest and most destitute corners of the globe: starving people will believe
anything if it will keep them fed. For your new religion, it’s best to start preaching your message
to people whose lives suck the most: the poor, the outcasts, the abused and forgotten. You know,
people who sit on Facebook all day.13
Jim Jones built his following by recruiting the homeless and marginalized minorities with a
socialist message minced with his own (demented) take on Christianity. Hell, what am I saying?
Jesus Christ did the same damn thing.14 Buddha, too. Moses—you get the idea. Religious leaders
preach to the poor and downtrodden and enslaved, telling them that they deserve the kingdom of
heaven—basically, an open “fuck you” to the corrupt elites of the day. It’s a message that’s easy
to get behind.
Today, appealing to the hopeless is easier than ever before. All you need is a social media
account: start posting extreme and crazy shit, and let the algorithm do the rest. The crazier and
more extreme your posts, the more attention you’ll garner, and the more the hopeless will flock
to you like flies to cow shit. It’s not hard at all.
But you can’t just go online and say anything. No, you must have a (semi-)coherent message.
You must have a vision. Because it’s easy to get people riled up and angry about nothing—the
news media have created a whole business model out of it. But to have hope, people need to feel
that they are a part of some greater movement, that they are about to join the winning side of
history.
And, for that, you must give them faith.

HOW TO START YOUR OWN RELIGION

Step Two: Choose Your Faith
We all must have faith in something. Without faith, there is no hope.
Nonreligious people bristle at the word faith, but having faith is inevitable. Evidence and
science are based on past experience. Hope is based on future experience. And you must always
rely on some degree of faith that something will occur again in the future.15 You pay your
mortgage because you have faith that money is real, and credit is real, and a bank taking all your
shit is real.16 You tell your kids to do their homework because you have faith that their education
is important, that it will lead them to their becoming happier, healthier adults. You have faith that
happiness exists and is possible. You have faith that living longer is worth it, so you strive to stay
safe and healthy. You have faith that love matters, that your job matters, that any of this matters.
So, there’s no such thing as an atheist. Well, sorta. Depends what you mean by “atheist.”17
My point is that we must all believe, on faith, that something is important. Even if you’re a
nihilist, you are believing, on faith, that nothing is more important than anything else.
So, in the end, it’s all faith.18
The important question, then, is: Faith in what? What do we choose to believe?
Whatever our Feeling Brain adopts as its highest value, this tippy top of our value hierarchy
becomes the lens through which we interpret all other values. Let’s call this highest value the
“God Value.”19 Some people’s God Value is money. These people view all other things (family,
love, prestige, politics) through the prism of money. Their family will love them only if they
make enough money. They will be respected only if they have money. All conflict, frustration,
jealousy, anxiety—everything boils down to money.20
Other people’s God Value is love. They view all other values through the prism of love—
they’re against conflict in all its forms, they’re against anything that separates or divides others.
Obviously, many people adopt Jesus Christ, or Muhammad, or the Buddha, as their God
Value. They then interpret everything they experience through the prism of that spiritual leader’s
teachings.
Some people’s God Value is themselves—or, rather, their own pleasure and empowerment.
This is narcissism: the religion of self-aggrandizement.21 These people place their faith in their
own superiority and deservedness.
Other people’s God Value is another person. This is often called “codependence.”22 These
people derive all hope from their connection with another individual and sacrifice themselves
and their own interests for that individual. They then base all their behavior, decisions, and
beliefs on what they think will please that other person—their own little personal God. This
typically leads to really fucked-up relationships with—you guessed it—narcissists. After all, the
narcissist’s God Value is himself, and the codependent’s God Value is fixing and saving the
narcissist. So, it kind of works out in a really sick and fucked-up way. (But not really.)
All religions must start with a faith-based God Value. Doesn’t matter what it is. Worshipping
cats, believing in lower taxes, never letting your kids leave the house—whatever it is, it is a
faith-based value that this one thing will produce the best future reality, and therefore gives the

most hope. We then organize our lives, and all other values, around that value. We look for
activities that enact that faith, ideas that support it, and most important, communities that share it.
It’s around now that some of the more scientifically minded readers start raising their hands and
pointing out that there are these things called facts and there is ample evidence to demonstrate
that facts exist, and we don’t need to have faith to know that some things are real.
Fair enough. But here’s the thing about evidence: it changes nothing. Evidence belongs to the
Thinking Brain, whereas values are decided by the Feeling Brain. You cannot verify values.
They are, by definition, subjective and arbitrary. Therefore, you can argue about facts until
you’re blue in the face, but ultimately, it doesn’t matter—people interpret the significance of
their experiences through their values.23
If a meteorite hit a town and killed half the people, the über-traditional religious person
would look at the event and say that it happened because the town was full of sinners. The atheist
would look at it and say that it was proof there is no God (another faith-based belief, by the
way), as how could a benevolent, all-powerful being let such an awful thing happen? A hedonist
would look at it and decide that it was even more reason to party, since we could all die at any
moment. And a capitalist would look at it and start thinking about how to invest in meteoritedefense technologies.
Evidence serves the interests of the God Value, not the other way around. The only loophole
to this arrangement is when evidence itself becomes your God Value. The religion built around
the worship of evidence is more commonly known as “science,” and it’s arguably the best thing
we’ve ever done as a species. But we’ll get to science and its ramifications in the next chapter.
My point is that all values are faith-based beliefs. Therefore, all hope (and therefore, all
religions) are also based on faith, faith that something can be important and valuable and right
despite the fact that there will never be a way to verify it beyond all doubt.
For our purposes, I’ve defined three types of religions, each type based on a different kind of
God Value:
Spiritual religions. Spiritual religions draw hope from supernatural beliefs, or belief in things that exist outside the physical or
material realm. These religions look for a better future outside this world and this life. Christianity, Islam, Judaism,
animism, and Greek mythology are examples of spiritual religions.
Ideological religions. Ideological religions draw hope from the natural world. They look for salvation and growth and develop
faith-based beliefs regarding this world and this life. Examples include capitalism, communism, environmentalism,
liberalism, fascism, and libertarianism.
Interpersonal religions. Interpersonal religions draw hope from other people in our lives. Examples of interpersonal religions
include romantic love, children, sports heroes, political leaders, and celebrities.

Spiritual religions are high risk/high reward. They require, by far, the most skill and charisma
to get going. But they also pay off the most in terms of follower loyalty and benefits. (I mean,
have you seen the Vatican? Holy shit.) And if you build one really well, it’ll last way after you
die.
Ideological religions play the religion formation game on “Normal Difficulty.” These
religions take a lot of work and effort to create, but they’re fairly common. But because they’re
so common, they run into a lot of competition for people’s hopes. They are often described as
cultural “trends,” and indeed, few of them survive more than a few years or decades. Only the
best last through multiple centuries.
Finally, interpersonal religions are playing the religion formation game on “Easy” mode.
That’s because interpersonal religions are as common as people themselves. Pretty much all of
us, at some point in our lives, completely surrender ourselves and our self-worth to another

individual. The interpersonal religion is sometimes experienced as an adolescent, naïve sort of
love and it’s the type of shit that you have to suffer through before you can ever grow out of it.
Let’s start with spiritual religions, as they have the highest stakes and are arguably the most
important religions in human history.

Spiritual Religions
From the pagan and animalistic rituals of early human cultures, to the pagan gods of antiquity, to
the grandiose monotheistic religions that still exist today, the majority of human history has been
dominated by a belief in supernatural forces and, most important, the hope that certain actions
and beliefs in this life would lead to rewards and improvement in the next life.
This preoccupation with the next life developed because for most of human history,
everything was completely fucked and 99 percent of the population had no hope of material or
physical improvement in their lives. If you think things are bad today, just think about the
plagues that wiped out a third of the population on an entire continent,24 or the wars that
involved selling tens of thousands of children into slavery.25 In fact, things were so bad in the old
days that the only way to keep everyone sane was by promising them hope in an afterlife. Oldschool religion held the fabric of society together because it gave the masses a guarantee that
their suffering was meaningful, that God was watching, and that they would be duly rewarded.
In case you haven’t noticed, spiritual religions are incredibly resilient. They last hundreds, if
not thousands, of years. This is because supernatural beliefs can never be proven or disproven.
Therefore, once a supernatural belief gets lodged as someone’s God Value, it’s nearly impossible
to dislodge it.
Spiritual religions are also powerful because they often encourage hope through death, which
has the nice side effect of making a lot of people willing to die for their unverifiable beliefs. Hard
to compete with that.

Ideological Religions
Ideological religions generate hope by constructing networks of beliefs that certain actions will
produce better outcomes in this life only if they are adopted by the population at large.
Ideologies are usually “isms”: libertarianism, nationalism, materialism, racism, sexism,
veganism, communism, capitalism, socialism, fascism, cynicism, skepticism, etc. Unlike
spiritual religions, ideologies are verifiable to varying degrees. You can theoretically test to see
whether a central bank makes a financial system more or less stable, whether democracy makes
society fairer, whether education makes people hack one another to pieces less often, but at a
certain point, most ideologies still rely on faith. There are two reasons for this. The first is that
some things are just incredibly difficult, if not impossible, to test and verify. The other is that a
lot of ideologies rely upon everyone in society having faith in the same thing.
For instance, you can’t scientifically prove that money is intrinsically valuable. But we all
believe it is, so it is.26 You also can’t prove that national citizenship is a real thing, or even that
most ethnicities exist.27 These are all socially constructed beliefs that we’ve all bought into,
taken on faith.
The problem with evidence and ideologies is that humans have a tendency to take a little bit
of evidence and run with it, generalizing a couple of simple ideas to entire populations and the
planet.28 This is our human narcissism at work—our need to invent our self-importance, our

Feeling Brain run amok. So, even though ideologies are subject to evidence and verification,
we’re not exactly good at verifying them.29 Humanity is so vast and complex that our brains
have trouble taking it all in. There are too many variables. So, our Thinking Brains inevitably
take short-cuts to maintain some otherwise shitty beliefs. Bad ideologies such as racism or
sexism persist due to ignorance far more than malice. And people hold on to those bad ideologies
because, sadly, they offer their adherents some degree of hope.
Ideological religions are difficult to start, but they are far more common than spiritual
religions. All you have to do is find some reasonable-sounding explanation for why everything is
fucked and then extrapolate that across wide populations in a way that gives people some hope,
and voilà! You have yourself an ideological religion. If you’ve been alive for more than twenty
years, surely you’ve seen this happen a few times by now. In my lifetime alone there have been
movements in favor of LGBTQ rights, stem cell research, and decriminalizing drug use. In fact, a
lot of what everyone is losing their shit about today is the fact that traditionalist, nationalist, and
populist ideologies are winning political power across much of the world, and these ideologies
are seeking to dismantle much of the work accomplished by the neoliberal, globalist, feminist,
and environmentalist ideologies of the late twentieth century.

Interpersonal Religions
Every Sunday, millions of people come together to stare at an empty green field. The field has
white lines painted on it. These millions of people have all agreed to believe (on faith) that these
lines mean something important. Then, dozens of strong men (or women) plod onto the field,
line up in seemingly arbitrary formations, and throw (or kick) around a piece of leather.
Depending on where this piece of leather goes and when, one group of people cheers, and the
other group of people gets really upset.
Sports are a form of religion. They are arbitrary value systems designed to give people hope.
Hit the ball here, and you’re a hero! Kick the ball there, and you’re a loser! Sports deify some
individuals and demonize others. Ted Williams is the best baseball hitter ever, and therefore,
according to some, an American hero, an icon, a role model. Other athletes are demonized for
coming up short, for wasting their talent, for betraying their followers.30
Yet, there is an even grander example of interpersonal religion than sports: politics. Across
the world, we come together under a similar set of values and decide to bestow authority,
leadership, and virtue onto a small number of people. Like the lines on a football field, political
systems are entirely made up, the positions of power exist due only to the faith of the population.
And whether it’s a democracy or a dictatorship, the result is the same: a small group of leaders is
idolized and exalted (or demonized) in the social consciousness.31
Interpersonal religions give us hope that another human being will bring us salvation and
happiness, that one individual (or group of individuals) is superior to all others. Interpersonal
religions are sometimes combined with supernatural beliefs and ideological beliefs, resulting in
pariahs, martyrs, heroes, and saints. Many of our interpersonal religions develop around our
leaders. A charismatic president or celebrity who seems to understand everything we go through
can approach the level of a God Value in our eyes, and much of what we deem right or wrong is
filtered through what is good or bad for our Dear Leader.
Fandom, in general, is a low-level kind of religion. Fans of Will Smith or Katy Perry or Elon
Musk follow everything that person does, hang on every word he or she says, and come to see
him or her as blessed or righteous in some way. The worship of that figure gives the fan hope of

a better future, even if it’s in the form of something as simple as future films, songs, or
inventions.
But the most important interpersonal religions are our familial and romantic relationships.
The beliefs and emotions involved in these relationships are evolutionary in nature, but they are
faith-based all the same.32 Each family is its own mini-church, a group of people who, on faith,
believe that being part of the group will give their lives meaning, hope, and salvation. Romantic
love, of course, can be a quasi-spiritual experience.33 We seem to lose ourselves in someone we
have fallen for, spinning all sorts of narratives about the cosmic significance of the relationship.
For better or worse, modern civilization has largely alienated us from these small,
interpersonal religions and tribes and replaced them with large nationalist and internationalist
ideological religions.34 This is good news for you and me, fellow religion-builder, as we don’t
have as many intimate bonds to cut through to get our followers emotionally attached to us.
Because, as we’ll see, religion is all about emotional attachment. And the best way to build
those attachments is to get people to stop thinking critically.

HOW TO START YOUR OWN RELIGION

Step Three: Preemptively Invalidate All Criticism or Outside Questioning
Now that your fledgling religion has its core tenets of faith, you need to find a way to protect that
faith from the inevitable criticism that will be flung its way. The trick is to adopt a belief that
creates a self-reinforcing us-versus-them dichotomy—that is, create a perception of “us” versus
“them” in such a way that anyone who criticizes or questions “us” immediately becomes a
“them.”
This sounds difficult, but is actually quite easy. Here are some examples:
If you don’t support the war, then you support the terrorists.
God created science to test our faith in God. Therefore, anything that contradicts the Bible
is merely a test of our faith in God.
Anyone who criticizes feminism is sexist.
Anyone who criticizes capitalism is a Communist.
Anyone who criticizes the president is a traitor.
Anyone who thinks Kobe Bryant was better than Michael Jordan doesn’t understand
basketball; therefore, any opinion they hold about basketball is invalid.
The point of these false us-versus-them dichotomies is to cut off at the knees any reasoning
or discussion before your followers start questioning their beliefs. These false us-versus-them
dichotomies have the added benefit of always presenting the group with a common enemy.
Common enemies are hugely important. I know we all like to think we’d prefer to live in a
world of perfect peace and harmony, but honestly, such a world wouldn’t last for more than a
few minutes. Common enemies create unity within our religion. Some sort of scapegoat, whether
justified or not, is necessary to blame for our pain and maintain our hope.35 Us-versus-them
dichotomies give us the enemies we all desperately crave.
After all, you need to be able to paint a really simple picture for your followers. There are
those who get “it” and those who do not get “it.” Those who get it are going to save the world.
Those who do not get it are going to destroy it. End of discussion. Whatever “it” is depends on
whatever belief you’re trying to sell—Jesus, Muhammad, libertarianism, gluten-free diets,
intermittent fasting, sleeping in hyperbaric chambers and living off Popsicles. Also, it’s not
enough to tell your followers that nonbelievers are bad. You must demonize them. They are the
downfall of everything that is good and holy. They ruin everything. They are fucking evil.
You must then convince your followers that it is of the utmost importance that everyone who
does not get “it” be stopped, no matter what. People are either near the top of the value hierarchy
or at the bottom; there are no in-betweeners in our religion.36
The more fear, the better. Lie a little bit if you have to—remember, people instinctually want
to feel as though they’re fighting a crusade, to believe that they are the holy warriors of justice
and truth and salvation. So, say whatever you need to say. Get them to feel that selfrighteousness to keep the religion going.
This is where conspiracy theories come in handy. It’s not just that vaccines cause autism; it’s
that the medical and pharmaceutical industries are getting rich by destroying everyone’s families.

It’s not just that pro-choicers have a different view on the biological status of a fetus; it’s that
they’re soldiers sent by Satan to destroy good Christian families. It’s not just that climate change
is a hoax; it’s that it’s a hoax created by the Chinese government to slow the U.S. economy and
take over the world.37

HOW TO START YOUR OWN RELIGION

Step Four: Ritual Sacrifice for Dummies—So Easy, Anyone Can Do It!
Growing up in Texas, Jesus and football were the only gods that mattered. And while I learned to
enjoy football despite being terrible at it, the whole Jesus thing never made a lot of sense to me.
Jesus was alive, but then he died, but then he was alive again, then he died again. And he was a
man, but he was also God, and now he’s a kind of man-god-spirit-thing that loves everyone
eternally (except maybe gay people, depending on whom you ask). It all struck me as kind of
arbitrary, and I felt—how do I say this?—like people were just making shit up.
Don’t get me wrong: I could get behind most of the moral teachings of Christ: be nice and
love your neighbor and all that stuff. Youth groups were actually a ton of fun. (Jesus camp is
maybe the most underrated summer activity of all time.) And the church usually had free cookies
hiding somewhere, in some room, every Sunday morning, which, when you’re a kid, is exciting.
But if I’m being totally honest, I didn’t like being a Christian, and I didn’t like it for a really
dumb reason: my parents made me wear lame dress clothes. That’s right. I questioned my
family’s faith and went atheist at age twelve over kiddie suspenders and bow ties.
I remember asking my dad, “If God already knows everything and loves me no matter what,
why does he care what I wear on Sundays?” Dad would shush me. “But Dad, if God will forgive
us our sins no matter what, why not just lie and cheat and steal all the time?” Another shush.
“But, Dad—”
The church thing never really panned out for me. I was sneaking Nine Inch Nails T-shirts
into Sunday school before my balls had completely dropped, and a couple of years later, I
struggled my way through my first Nietzsche book. From there, it was all downhill. I started
acting out. I bailed on Sunday school to go smoke cigarettes in the adjoining parking lot. It was
over; I was a little heathen.
The open questioning and skepticism eventually got so bad that my Sunday school teacher
took me aside one morning and made me a deal: he’d give me perfect marks in our confirmation
class and tell my parents I was a model student as long as I stopped questioning the logical
inconsistencies of the Bible in front of all the other kids. I agreed.
This probably won’t surprise you, but I’m not very spiritual—no supernatural beliefs for me,
thank you. I get a sick pleasure from chaos and uncertainty. This, unfortunately, has condemned
me to a life of struggle with the Uncomfortable Truth. But it’s something I’ve come to accept
about myself.
Now that I’m older, though, I get the whole dress-up-for-Jesus thing. Despite what I thought
at the time, it wasn’t about my parents (or God) torturing me. It was about respect. And not to
God, but to the community, to the religion. Dressing up on Sunday is about virtue-signaling to
the other churchgoers, “This Jesus stuff is serious business.” It’s part of the us-versus-them
dynamic. It signals that you’re an “us” and that you should be treated as such.
And then there are the robes . . . Ever notice that the most important moments in life are always
accompanied by somebody in a robe? Weddings, graduations, funerals, court hearings, judicial
committee hearings, open heart surgeries, baptisms, and yes, even church sermons.
I first noticed the robe thing when I graduated from college. I was hungover and on about

three hours’ sleep when I stumbled to my seat for commencement. I looked around and thought,
holy shit, I haven’t seen this many people wearing robes in one place since I went to church.
Then I looked down and, to my horror, realized that I was one of them.
The robe, a visual cue signaling status and importance, is part of the ritual thing. And we
need rituals because rituals make our values tangible. You can’t think your way toward valuing
something. You have to live it. You have to experience it. And one way of making it easier for
others to live and experience a value is to make up cute outfits for them to wear and importantsounding words for them to say—in short, to give them rituals. Rituals are visual and
experiential representations of what we deem important. That’s why every good religion has
them.
Remember, emotions are actions; the two are one and the same. Therefore, to modify (or
reinforce) the Feeling Brain’s value hierarchy, you need some easily repeatable yet totally unique
and identifiable action for people to perform. That’s where the rituals come in.
Rituals are designed to be repeated over a long period of time, which only lends them an
even greater sense of importance—after all, it’s not often you get to do the exact same thing that
people five hundred years ago did. That’s some heavy shit. Rituals are also symbolic. As values,
they must also embody some story or narrative. Churches have guys in robes dipping bread in
wine (or grape juice) and feeding it to a bunch of people to represent the body of Christ. The
symbolism represents Christ’s sacrifice (he didn’t deserve it!) for our salvation (neither do we,
but that’s why it’s powerful!).
Countries create rituals around their founding or around wars they’ve won (or lost). We
march in parades and wave flags and shoot off fireworks and there’s a shared sense that it all
signifies something valuable and worthwhile. Married couples create their own little rituals and
habits, their inside jokes, all to reaffirm their relationship’s value, their own private interpersonal
religion. Rituals connect us with the past. They connect us to our values. And they affirm who
we are.
Rituals are usually about some sacrifice. Back in the old days, priests and chiefs would actually
kill people on an altar, sometimes ripping out their still-beating hearts, and people would be
screaming and banging on drums and doing all kinds of crazy shit.38
These sacrifices were made to appease an angry god, or ensure a good harvest, or bring about
any number of other desired outcomes. But the real reason for ritual sacrifice was deeper than
that.
Humans are actually horribly guilt-ridden creatures. Let’s say you find a wallet with a
hundred dollars in it but no ID or any other info about whom it belongs to. No one is around, and
you have no clue how to find the owner, so you keep it. Newton’s First Law of Emotion states
that every action produces an equal and opposite emotional reaction. In this case, something
good happens to you without your deserving it. Cue guilt.
Now think of it this way: You exist. You didn’t do anything to deserve existing. You don’t
even know why you started existing; you just did. Boom—you have a life. And you have no idea
where it came from or why. If you believe God gave it to you, then, holy shit! Do you owe Him
big time! But even if you don’t believe in God—damn, you’re blessed with life! What did you
ever do to deserve that? How can you live in such a way as to make your life worthwhile? This is
the constant, yet unanswerable question of the human condition, and why the inherent guilt of
consciousness is the cornerstone of almost every spiritual religion.
The sacrifices that pop up in ancient spiritual religions were enacted to give their adherents a
feeling of repaying that debt, of living that worthwhile life. Though back in the day, they’d

actually sacrifice human beings—a life for a life—eventually, people smartened up and realized
that you could symbolically sacrifice a life (Jesus’s, or whoever’s) for the salvation of all
mankind. That way, we didn’t have to keep cleaning blood off the altar every other day. (And the
flies—don’t even get me started on the flies.)39
Most religious practices are developed for the alleviation of guilt. You could even say that
that’s really all prayer is: miniature episodes of guilt alleviation. You don’t pray to God to say,
“Fuck, yeah. I’m awesome!” No. Prayer is like a gratitude journal before there were gratitude
journals: “Thanks, God, for letting me exist, even though it sucks to be me sometimes. I’m sorry
I thought and did all those bad things.” Boom! Sense of guilt absolved, at least for a while.
Ideological religions handle the guilt question far more efficiently than spiritual ones.
Nations direct people’s feelings of existential guilt toward service—“Our country gave you these
opportunities, so put on a damn uniform and fight to protect them.” Right-wing ideologies
usually perceive necessary sacrifice in terms of protecting one’s country and family. Left-wing
ideologies usually see necessary sacrifice as giving up for the greater good of all society.
Finally, in interpersonal religions, sacrificing oneself generates a sense of romance and
loyalty. (Think about marriage: I mean, you stand at an altar and promise to give your life to this
other person.) We all struggle with the sense that we deserve to be loved. Even if your parents
were awesome, you sometimes wonder, wow, why me? What did I do to deserve this?
Interpersonal religions have all sorts of rituals and sacrifices designed to make people feel they
deserve to be loved. Rings, gifts, anniversaries, wiping the piss off the floor when I miss the
toilet—it’s the little things that add up to one big thing. You’re welcome, honey.

HOW TO START YOUR OWN RELIGION

Step Five: Promise Heaven, Deliver Hell
If you’ve made it this far in starting your own religion it means you’ve assembled a nice group of
hopeless people desperately avoiding the Uncomfortable Truth by studying a bunch of bullshit
you’ve made up, ignoring their friends, and telling their families to fuck off.
Now it’s time to get serious.
The beauty of a religion is that the more you promise your followers salvation,
enlightenment, world peace, perfect happiness, or whatever, the more they will fail to live up to
that promise. And the more they fail to live up to that promise, the more they’ll blame
themselves and feel guilty. And the more they blame themselves and feel guilty, the more they’ll
do whatever you tell them to do to make up for it.
Some people might call this the cycle of psychological abuse. But let’s not allow such terms
to ruin our fun.
Pyramid schemes do this really well. You give a scumbag some money for a bunch of
products you don’t want or need and then you spend the next three months desperately trying to
get other people to sign up for the scheme under you and also buy and sell products nobody
wants or needs.
And it doesn’t work.
Then, instead of recognizing the obvious (the product is one big scam selling a scam to a
scam to sell more scams), you blame yourself—because, look, the guy at the top of the pyramid
has a Ferrari! And you want a Ferrari. So, clearly the problem must be you, right?
Fortunately, that guy with the Ferrari has graciously agreed to put on a seminar to help you
sell more crap nobody wants to people who will then try to sell more crap nobody wants to more
people who will sell it . . . and so on.
And at said seminar, most of the time is spent psyching you up with music and chants and
creating an us-versus-them dichotomy (“Winners never give up! Losers believe it won’t work for
them!”), and you come away from the seminar really motivated and pumped, but still with no
idea how to sell anything, especially crap nobody wants. And instead of getting pissed off at the
money-based religion you’ve bought into, you get pissed off at yourself. You blame yourself for
failing to live up to your God Value, regardless of how ill-advised that God Value is.
You can see this same cycle of desperation play out in all sorts of other areas. Fitness and
diet plans, political activism, self-help seminars, financial planning, visiting your grandmother
on a holiday—the message is always the same: the more you do it, the more you’re told you need
to do it to finally experience the satisfaction you’ve been promised. Yet that satisfaction never
comes.
Look, time out for a second. Let me be the one to break the bad news to you: human pain is like
a game of Whac-A-Mole. Every time you knock down one kind of pain, another one pops up.
And the faster you whack them, the faster they come back.
The pain may get better, it may change shape, it may be less catastrophic each time. But it
will always be there. It’s part of us.40
It is us.

A lot of religious spokespeople out there make a lot of money claiming they can beat the pain
of the Whac-A-Mole game for you, once and for all. But the truth is that there is no end to the
pain moles. The faster you hit them, the faster they come back. And that’s how all the douche
canoes in the religion game stay in business so long: instead of admitting that the game is rigged,
that our human nature is fundamentally designed to generate pain, they blame you for not
winning the game. Or, worse, they blame some nebulous “them.” If we could just get rid of
“them,” we’d all stop suffering. Pinky swear.41 But that doesn’t work, either. That just transfers
the pain from one population to another, and amplifies it.
Because, seriously, if someone really could solve all your problems, they’d go out of
business by next Tuesday (or get voted out of office next week). Leaders need their followers to
be perpetually dissatisfied; it’s good for the leadership business. If everything were perfect and
great, there’d be no reason to follow anybody. No religion will ever make you feel blissful and
peaceful all the time. No country will ever feel completely fair and safe. No political philosophy
will solve everyone’s problems all the time. True equality can never be achieved; someone
somewhere will always be screwed over. True freedom doesn’t really exist because we all must
sacrifice some autonomy for stability. No one, no matter how much you love them or they love
you, will ever absolve that internal guilt you feel simply for existing. It’s all fucked. Everything
is fucked. It always has been and always will be. There are no solutions, only stopgap measures,
only incremental improvements, only slightly better forms of fuckedness than others. And it’s
time we stop running from that and, instead, embrace it.42
This is our fucked-up world. And we’re the fucked-up ones in it.

HOW TO START YOUR OWN RELIGION

Step Six: Prophet for Profit!
So, this is it. You’ve come to the end. You have your religion, and it’s time to reap all its
benefits. Now that you’ve got your little following giving you their money and cutting your
grass, you can finally have everything you’ve ever wished for!
Want a dozen sex slaves? Just say the word. Make up scripture. Tell your followers that
“Stage Six of Manatee Enlightenment” can only be found in the Prophet’s orgasms.
Want a huge piece of land out in the middle of nowhere? Just tell your followers that only
you can build paradise for them and it needs to be really far away—oh, and by the way, they
need to pay for it.
Want power and prestige? Tell your followers to vote you into office or, even better,
overthrow the government with violence. If you do your job well, they should be willing to give
up their lives for you.
The opportunities really are endless.
No more loneliness. No more relationship problems. No more financial woes. You can fulfill
your wildest dreams. You just have to trample on the hopes and dreams of thousands of other
people to get there.
Yes, my friend, you’ve worked hard for this. Therefore, you deserve all the benefits without
any meddlesome social concerns or pedantic arguments about ethics and whatnot. Because that’s
what you get to do when you start your own religion: You get to decide what is ethical. You get
to decide what is right. And you get to decide who is righteous.
Maybe this whole “start a religion” thing makes you squirm. Well, I hate to break it to you, but
you’re already in one. Whether you realize or not, you’ve adopted some group’s beliefs and
values, you participate in the rituals and offer up the sacrifices, you draw the us-versus-them
lines and intellectually isolate yourself. This is what we all do. Religious beliefs and their
constituent tribal behaviors are a fundamental part of our nature.43 It’s impossible not to adopt
them. If you think you’re above religion, that you use logic and reason, I’m sorry to say, you’re
wrong: you are one of us.44 If you think you’re well informed and highly educated, you’re not:
you still suck.45
We all must have faith in something. We must find value somewhere. It’s how we
psychologically survive and thrive. It’s how we find hope. And even if you have a vision for a
better future, it’s too hard to go it alone. To realize any dream, we need support networks, for
both emotional and logistical reasons. It takes an army. Literally.
It’s our value hierarchies—as expressed through the stories of religion, and shared among
thousands or millions—that attract, organize, and propel human systems forward in a sort of
Darwinian competition. Religions compete in the world for resources, and the religions that tend
to win out are those whose value hierarchies make the most efficient use of labor and capital.
And as it wins out, more and more people adopt the winning religion’s value hierarchy, as it has
demonstrated the most value to individuals in the population. These victorious religions then
stabilize and become the foundation for culture.46
But here’s the problem: Every time a religion succeeds, every time it spreads its message far

and wide and comes to dominate a huge swath of human emotion and endeavor, its values
change. The religion’s God Value no longer comprises the principles that inspired the religion in
the first place. Its God Value slowly shifts and becomes the preservation of the religion itself: not
to lose what it has gained.
And this is where the corruption begins. When the original values that defined the religion,
the movement, the revolution, get tossed aside for the sake of maintaining the status quo, this is
narcissism at an organizational level. This is how you go from Jesus to the Crusades, from
Marxism to the gulags, from a wedding chapel to divorce court. This corruption of the religion’s
original values rots away at the religion’s following, thus leading to the rising up of newer,
reactionary religions that eventually conquer the original one. Then the whole process begins
again.
In this sense, success is in many ways far more precarious than failure. First, because the
more you gain the more you have to lose, and second, because the more you have to lose, the
harder it is to maintain hope. But more important, because by experiencing our hopes, we lose
them. We see that our beautiful visions for a perfect future are not so perfect, that our dreams and
aspirations are themselves riddled with unexpected flaws and unforeseen sacrifices.
Because the only thing that can ever truly destroy a dream is to have it come true.

Chapter 5

Hope Is Fucked
In the late nineteenth century, during a mild and glorious summer in the Swiss Alps, a hermetic
philosopher, a self-anointed dynamite of mind and spirit, metaphorically came down off his
mountaintop and, with his own money, published a book. The book was his gift to mankind, a
gift that stood boldly upon the doorstep of the modern world and announced the words that
would make the philosopher famous long after his death.
It announced, “God is dead!”—and more. It announced that the echoes of this death would be
the harbinger of a new and dangerous age that would challenge us all.
The philosopher spoke these words as a warning. He spoke as a watchman. He spoke for us
all.
Yet, the book sold fewer than forty copies.1
Meta von Salis woke before dawn to light the fire to boil water for the philosopher’s tea. She
fetched ice to cool the blankets for his achy joints. She gathered bones from yesterday’s dinner to
begin stewing a broth that would settle his stomach. She hand-washed his soiled linens. And
soon, he would need his hair cropped and his mustache trimmed, and she realized she had
forgotten to fetch a new razor.
This was Meta’s third summer caring for Friedrich Nietzsche and probably, she figured, her
last. She loved him—as a brother, that is. (When a mutual friend suggested they marry, they both
laughed uproariously . . . and then became nauseated.) But Meta was approaching the limits of
her charity.
She had met Nietzsche at a dinner party. She listened to him play piano and tell jokes and
rambunctious stories of his antics with his old friend, composer Richard Wagner. Unlike in his
writing, Nietzsche was polite and mild in person. He was an affectionate listener. He was a lover
of poetry and could recite dozens of verses from memory. He’d sit and play word games for
hours, sing songs and make puns.
Nietzsche was disarmingly brilliant. A mind so sharp he could slice a room open with only a
few words. Aphorisms that would later become world famous seemed to spill out of him like
fogged breath in cold air. “Talking too much about yourself can also be a means to conceal
yourself,” he would spontaneously add, quickly silencing the room.2
Meta often found herself speechless in his presence, not because of any overwhelmed
emotion, but merely because her mind felt as though it were constantly a few paces behind his
and needed a moment to catch up.
Yet, Meta was no intellectual slouch. In fact, she was a badass of her time. Meta was the first
woman ever to earn a PhD in Switzerland. She was also one of the world’s leading feminist
writers and activists. She spoke four languages fluently and published articles all over Europe
arguing for women’s rights, a radical idea at the time. She was well traveled, brilliant, and
headstrong.3 And when she stumbled upon Nietzsche’s work, she felt she had finally found

someone whose ideas could push women’s liberation out into the world.
Here was a man who argued for the empowerment of the individual, for radical personal
responsibility. Here was a man who believed that individual aptitude mattered more than
anything, that each human not only deserved expansion into his or her full potential but had the
duty to exercise and push for that expansion. Nietzsche put into words, Meta believed, the core
ideas and conceptual frameworks that would ultimately empower women and lead them out of
their perpetual servitude.
But there was only one problem: Nietzsche wasn’t a feminist. In fact, he found the whole
idea of women’s liberation ridiculous.
This didn’t deter Meta. He was a man of reason; he could be persuaded. He simply needed to
recognize his own prejudice and be freed from it. She began visiting him regularly, and soon
they became close friends and intellectual companions. They spent summers in Switzerland,
winters in France and Italy, forays into Venice, quick trips doubling back to Germany and then
Switzerland again.
As the years wore on, Meta discovered that behind Nietzsche’s penetrating eyes and gigantic
mustache was a bundle of contradictions. He wrote obsessively of power while being himself
frail and weak. He preached radical responsibility and self-reliance despite being wholly
dependent on (mostly female) friends and family to take care of and support him. He cursed the
fickle reviewers and academics who panned his work or refused to read it, while simultaneously
boasting that his lack of popular success only proved his brilliance—as he once proclaimed, “My
time has not come yet, some men are born posthumously.”4
Nietzsche was, in fact, everything he claimed to loathe: weak, dependent, and wholly
captivated and reliant on powerful, independent women. Yet, in his work, he preached individual
strength and self-reliance, and was a woeful misogynist. His lifelong dependence on the care of
women seemed to blur his ability to see them clearly. It would be the glaring blind spot in the
vision of an otherwise prophetic man.
If there were a Hall of Fame for “most pain tolerated by a single individual,” I would nominate
Nietzsche as one of its first cornerstone inductees. He was continually sick as a child: Doctors
applied leeches to his neck and ears and told him to spend hours without moving. He’d inherited
a neurological disorder that brought about debilitating migraines throughout his life (and caused
him to go mad in middle age). He was also incredibly sensitive to light, unable to go outside
without thick blue-tinted glasses, and would be nearly blind by the age of thirty.
As a young man, he would join the military and serve briefly in the Franco-Prussian War.
There, he would contract diphtheria and dysentery, which nearly killed him. The treatment at the
time was acid enemas, which destroyed his digestive tract. For the rest of his life, he would
struggle with acute digestive pain, was never able to eat large meals, and was incontinent for
parts of his life. An injury from his cavalry days left parts of his body inflexible and, on his worst
days, immovable. He often needed help standing up and would spend months at a time stuck
alone in bed, unable to open his eyes due to the pain. In 1880, what he would later call “a bad
year,” he was bedridden 260 out of 365 days. He spent most of his life migrating between the
French coast in the winter and the Swiss Alps in the summer, as he required mild temperatures to
keep his bones and joints from aching.
Meta quickly discovered that she wasn’t the only intellectual woman fascinated by this man.
He had a parade of women coming by to take care of him for weeks or months at a time. Like
Meta, these women were badasses of their time: They were professors and wealthy landowners
and entrepreneurs. They were educated and multilingual and fiercely independent.

And they were feminists, the earliest feminists.
They, too, had seen the liberating message in Nietzsche’s work. He wrote of social structures
crippling the individual; feminists argued that the social structures of the age imprisoned them.
He denounced the Church for rewarding the weak and mediocre; feminists, too, denounced the
Church, for forcing women into marriage and subservience to men. And he dared recast the story
of human history not as mankind’s escape from and dominance over nature, but as mankind’s
growing ignorance to its own nature. He argued that the individual must empower himself and
access ever-higher levels of freedom and consciousness. These women saw feminism as the next
step to that higher liberation.
Nietzsche filled them all with hope, and they took turns caring for this deteriorating, broken
man, hopeful that the next book, the next essay, the next polemic, would be the one that broke
open the floodgates.
But for most of his life, his work was almost universally ignored.
Then Nietzsche announced the death of God, and he went from failing university professor to
pariah. He was unemployable and basically homeless. No one wanted anything to do with him:
no university, no publisher, not even many of his friends. He scrounged together money to
publish his work himself, borrowing from his mother and sister to survive. He relied on friends
to manage his life for him. And even then, his books hardly sold a copy.
Yet, despite it all, these women stuck with him. They cleaned him and fed him and carried
him. They believed there was something in this decrepit man that could potentially change
history. And so, they waited.

A Brief History of the World, According to Nietzsche
Let’s say you drop a bunch of people onto a plot of land with limited resources and have them
start a civilization from scratch. Here’s what happens:
Some people are naturally more gifted than others. Some are smarter. Some are bigger and
stronger. Some are more charismatic. Some are friendly and get along easily with others. Some
work harder and come up with better ideas.
The people with natural advantages will accumulate more resources than others. And because
they have more resources, they will have a disproportionate amount of power within this new
society. They will be able to use that power to garner more resources and more advantages, and
so on—you know, the whole “rich get richer” thing. Run this through enough generations, and
pretty soon you have a social hierarchy with a small number of elites at the top and a large
number of people getting completely hosed at the bottom. Since the advent of agriculture, all
human societies have exhibited this stratification, and all societies must deal with the tension that
emerges between the advantaged elite and the disadvantaged masses.5
Nietzsche called the elite the “masters” of society, as they have almost complete control over
wealth, production, and political power. He called the working masses the “slaves” of society
because he saw little difference between a laborer working his whole life for a small sum and
slavery itself.6
Now, here’s where it gets interesting. Nietzsche argued that the masters of society would
come to see their privilege as well deserved. That is, they would craft value narratives to justify
their elite status. Why shouldn’t they be rewarded for it? It was good they were on top. They
deserved it. They were the smartest and strongest and most talented. Therefore, they were the
most righteous.

Nietzsche called this belief system, in which those who end up ahead do so because they
deserve it, “master morality.” Master morality is the moral belief that people get what they
deserve. It’s the moral belief that “might makes right,” that if you earned something through hard
work or ingenuity, you deserve it. No one can take that from you; nor should they. You are the
best, and because you’ve demonstrated superiority, you should be rewarded for it.
Conversely, Nietzsche argued, the “slaves” of society would generate a moral code of their
own. Whereas the masters believed they were righteous and virtuous because of their strength,
the slaves of society came to believe that they were righteous and virtuous because of their
weakness. Slave morality believes that people who have suffered the most, those who are the
most disadvantaged and exploited, deserve the best treatment because of that suffering. Slave
morality believes that it’s the poorest and most unfortunate who deserve the most sympathy and
the most respect.
Whereas master morality believes in the virtue of strength and dominance, slave morality
believes in the virtue of sacrifice and submission. While master morality believes in the necessity
of hierarchy, slave morality believes in the necessity of equality. While master morality is
generally represented by right-wing political beliefs, slave morality is usually found in left-wing
political beliefs.7
We all contain both these moralities within us. Imagine you’re in a class at school and you
study your ass off and get the highest test score. And because you got the highest test score,
you’re awarded benefits due to your success. You feel morally justified having those benefits;
after all, you worked hard and earned them. You are a “good” student and a “good” person for
being a good student. This is master morality.
Now imagine that you have a classmate. This classmate has eighteen siblings, all being raised
by a single mother. This classmate works multiple part-time jobs and is never able to study
because she is literally putting food on the table for her brothers and sisters. She fails the same
exam that you passed with flying colors. Is that fair? No, it’s not. You would probably feel that
she deserves some sort of special exception due to her situation—maybe a chance to retake the
test or to take it at a later date, when she has time to study for it. She deserves this because she is
a “good” person for her sacrifices and disadvantages. This is slave morality.
In Newtonian terms, master morality is the intrinsic desire to create a moral separation
between ourselves and the world around us. It is the desire to create moral gaps with us on top.
Slave morality is, then, an intrinsic desire to equalize, to close the moral gap and alleviate
suffering. Both are fundamental components of our Feeling Brain’s operating system. Both
generate and perpetuate strong emotions. And both give us hope.
Nietzsche argued that the cultures of the ancient world (Greek, Roman, Egyptian, Indian, and
so on) were master morality cultures. They were structured to celebrate strength and excellence
even at the expense of millions of slaves and subjects. They were warrior civilizations; they
celebrated guts, glory, and bloodshed. Nietzsche also argued that the Judeo-Christian ethic of
charity, pity, and compassion ushered slave morality to prominence, and continued to dominate
Western civilization up through his own time. For Nietzsche, these two value hierarchies were in
constant tension and opposition. They were, he believed, at the root of all political and social
conflict throughout history.
And, he warned, that conflict was about to get much worse.
Each religion is a faith-based attempt to explain reality in such a way that it gives people a steady
stream of hope. In a kind of Darwinian competition, those religions that mobilize, coordinate,

and inspire their believers the most are those that win out and spread throughout the world.8
In the ancient world, pagan religions built on master morality justified the existence of
emperors and warrior-kings who swept across the planet, expanding and consolidating territory
and people. Then, about two thousand years ago, slave morality religions emerged and slowly
began to take their place. These new religions were (usually) monotheistic and were not limited
to one nation, race, or ethnic group. They preached their message to everyone because their
message was one of equality: all people were either born good and later corrupted or were born
sinners and had to be saved. Either way, the result was the same. Everyone, regardless of nation,
race, or creed, had to be converted in the name of the One True God.9
Then, in the seventeenth century, a new religion began to emerge in Europe, a religion that
would unleash forces more powerful than anything seen in human history.
Every religion runs into the sticky problem of evidence. You can tell people all this great
stuff about God and spirits and angels and whatnot, but if the entire town burns down and your
kid loses an arm in a fishing accident, well, then . . . oops. Where was God?
Throughout history, authorities have expended a lot of effort to hide the lack of evidence
supporting their religion and/or to punish anyone who dared question the validity of their faithbased values. It’s for this reason that, like most atheists, Nietzsche loathed spiritual religions.
Natural philosophers, as scientists were called in Isaac Newton’s time, decided that the most
reliable faith-based beliefs were those that had the most evidence supporting them. Evidence
became the God Value, and any belief that was no longer supported by evidence had to be
altered to account for the new observed reality. This produced a new religion: science.
Science is arguably the most effective religion because it is the first religion that is able to
evolve and improve upon itself. It is open to anybody and everybody. It is not moored to a single
book or creed. It is not beholden to some ancient land or people. It is not tethered to a
supernatural spirit whose existence cannot be proven or disproven. It is an ongoing, everchanging body of evidence-based beliefs, one that is free to mutate, grow, and shift as the
evidence dictates.
The scientific revolution changed the world more than anything before or since.10 It has
reshaped the planet, lifted billions out of disease and poverty, and improved every aspect of
life.11 It is not an exaggeration to suggest that science may be the only demonstrably good thing
humanity has ever done for itself. (Thank you, Francis Bacon, thank you, Isaac Newton, you
fucking titans.) Science is singularly responsible for all the greatest inventions and advances in
human history, from medicine and agriculture to education and commerce.
But science did something else even more spectacular: it introduced to the world the concept
of growth. For most of human history, “growth” wasn’t a thing. Change occurred so slowly that
everyone died in pretty much the same economic condition they were born in. The average
human from two thousand years ago experienced about as much economic growth in his lifetime
as we experience in six months today.12 People would live their entire lives, and nothing
changed—no new developments, inventions, or technologies. People would live and die on the
same land, among the same people, using the same tools, and nothing ever got better. In fact,
things like plagues and famine and war and dickhead rulers with large armies often made
everything worse. It was a slow, grueling, miserable existence.
And with no prospect for change or a better life in this lifetime, people drew their hope from
spiritual promises of a better life in the next lifetime. Spiritual religions flourished, and
dominated daily life. Everything revolved around the Church (or synagogue or temple or mosque
or whatever). Priests and holy men were the arbiters of social life because they were the arbiters

of hope. They were the only ones who could tell you what God wanted, and God was the only
one who could promise any salvation or a better future. Therefore, these holy men dictated
everything that was of value in society.
Then science happened, and shit got cray-cray. Microscopes and printing presses and internal
combustion engines and cotton gins and thermometers and, finally, some goddamn medicine that
actually worked. Suddenly, life got better. More important, you could see life getting better.
People used better tools, had access to more food, were healthier, and made more money.
Finally, you could look back ten years and say, “Whoa! Can you believe we used to live like
that?”
And that ability to look back and see progress, see growth happen, changed how people
viewed the future. It changed how they viewed themselves. Forever.
Now, you didn’t have to wait until death to improve your lot. You could improve it here and
now. And this implied all sorts of wonderful things. Freedom, for one: How were you going to
choose to grow today? But also responsibility: because you could now control your own destiny,
you had to take responsibility for that destiny. And of course, equality: because if a big
patriarchal God isn’t dictating who deserves what, that must mean that either no one deserves
anything or everyone deserves everything.
These were concepts that had never been voiced before. With the prospect of so much growth
and change in this life, people no longer relied on spiritual beliefs about the next life to give them
hope. Instead, they began to invent and rely upon the ideological religions of their time.
This changed everything. Church doctrines softened. People stayed home on Sundays.
Monarchs conceded power to their subjects. Philosophers began to openly question God—and
somehow weren’t burned alive for doing so. It was a golden age for human thought and progress.
And incredibly, the progress begun in that age has only accelerated and continues to accelerate to
this day.
The scientific revolution eroded the dominance of spiritual religions and made way for the
dominance of ideological religions. And this is what concerned Nietzsche. Because for all of the
progress and wealth and tangible benefits that ideological religions produce, they lack something
that spiritual religions do not: infallibility.
Once believed in, a supernatural deity is impervious to worldly affairs. Your town could burn
down. Your mother could make a million dollars and then lose it all again. You could watch
wars and diseases come and go. None of these experiences directly contradicts a belief in a deity,
because supernatural entities are evidence-proof. And while atheists see this as a bug, it can also
be a feature. The robustness of spiritual religions means that the shit could hit the proverbial fan,
and your psychological stability would remain intact. Hope can be preserved because God is
always preserved.13
Not so with ideologies. If you spend a decade of your life lobbying for certain governmental
reform, and then that reform leads to the deaths of tens of thousands of people, that’s on you.
That piece of hope that sustained you for years is shattered. Your identity, destroyed. Hello
darkness, my old friend.
Ideologies, because they’re constantly challenged, changed, proven, and then disproven,
offer scant psychological stability upon which to build one’s hope. And when the ideological
foundation of our belief systems and value hierarchies is shaken, it throws us into the maw of the
Uncomfortable Truth.
Nietzsche was on top of this before anybody else. He warned of the coming existential
malaise that technological growth would bring upon the world. In fact, this was the whole point

of his “God is dead” proclamation.
“God is dead” was not some obnoxious atheistic gloating, as it is usually interpreted today.
No. It was a lament, a warning, a cry for help. Who are we to determine the meaning and
significance of our own existence? Who are we to decide what is good and right in the world?
How can we bear this burden?
Nietzsche, understanding that existence is inherently chaotic and unknowable, believed that
we were not psychologically equipped to handle the task of explaining our cosmic significance.
He saw the spate of ideological religions that spewed forth in the Enlightenment’s wake
(democracy, nationalism, communism, socialism, colonialism, etc.) as merely postponing the
inevitable existential crisis of mankind. And he hated them all. He found democracy to be naïve,
nationalism stupid, communism appalling, colonialism offensive.14
Because, in a kind of backward Buddhist way, Nietzsche believed that any worldly
attachment—to gender, race, ethnicity, nationality, or history—was a mirage, a make-believe
faith-based construct designed to suspend us high over the chasm of the Uncomfortable Truth by
a thin rope of meaning. And ultimately, he believed that all these constructs were destined to
conflict with one another and cause far more violence than they solved.15
Nietzsche predicted coming conflicts between the ideologies built on master and slave
moralities.16 He believed that these conflicts would wreak greater destruction upon the world
than anything else seen in human history. He predicted that this destruction would not be limited
to national borders or different ethnic groups. It would transcend all borders; it would transcend
country and people. Because these conflicts, these wars, would not be for God. They would be
between gods.
And the gods would be us.

Pandora’s Box
In Greek mythology, the world started out with only men.17 Everyone drank a lot and didn’t do
any work. It was one big, everlasting frat party. The ancient Greeks called this “paradise.” But if
you ask me, it sounds like a special kind of hell.
The gods, recognizing that this was a fairly boring state of affairs, decided to spice up the
situation a bit. They wanted to create a companion for mankind, someone who would command
the men’s attention, someone who would introduce complication and uncertainty to the easy life
of shotgunning beer cans and playing foosball all night.
So, they decided to create the first woman.
For this project, every one of the major gods helped out. Aphrodite gave her beauty. Athena
gave her wisdom. Hera gave her the ability to create a family. Hermes gave her charismatic
speech. On and on, the gods installed gifts and talents and intrigues into woman like apps in a
new iPhone.
The result was Pandora.
The gods sent Pandora to earth to introduce competition and sex and babies and arguments
about the toilet seat. But the gods did something else, too: they sent her with a box. It was a
beautiful box, embossed in gold and covered in intricate and delicate designs. The gods told
Pandora to give the box to men, but also instructed her that it could never be opened.
Spoiler alert: people suck. Somebody opened Pandora’s box—surprise, surprise, the men
would all blame the woman for it—and out flew all the evils into the world: death, disease,
hatred, envy, and Twitter. The bucolic sausage party was no more. Now men could kill each

other. And, more important, now men had something to kill each other for: women, and the
resources that attracted women. Thus, began the stupid dick-measuring contest also known as
human history.
Wars started. Kingdoms and rivalries arose. Slavery happened. Emperors started conquering
one another, leaving hundreds of thousands slaughtered in their wake. Entire cities were built and
then destroyed. Meanwhile, women were treated as property, traded and bartered among the men
like fancy goats or something.18
Basically, humans started being humans.
Everything appeared to be fucked. But in the bottom of that box there remained something
shiny and beautiful.
There remained hope.
There are many interpretations of the Pandora’s box myth, the most common being that while the
gods punished us with all the evils of the world, they also equipped us with the one antidote to
those evils: hope. Think of it as the yin and the yang of mankind’s eternal struggle: everything is
always fucked, but the more fucked things become, the more we must mobilize hope to sustain
and overcome the world’s fuckedness. This is why heroes such as Witold Pilecki inspire us: their
ability to muster enough hope to resist evil reminds us that all of us are capable of resisting evil.
The sickness may spread, but so does the cure, because hope is contagious. Hope is what
saves the world.
But here’s another, less popular interpretation of the Pandora’s box myth: What if hope is not
the antidote to evil? What if hope is just another form of evil? What if hope just got left in the
box?19
Because hope didn’t just inspire Pilecki’s heroics. Hope also inspired the Communist
revolutions and the Nazi genocides. Hitler hoped to exterminate the Jews to bring about an
evolutionarily superior human race. The Soviets hoped to instigate a global revolution to unite
the world in true equality under communism. And let’s be honest, most of the atrocities
committed by the Western, capitalist societies over the past one hundred years were done in the
name of hope: hope for greater global economic freedom and wealth.
Like a surgeon’s scalpel, hope can save a life, and hope can take a life. It can uplift us, and it
can destroy us. Just as there are healthy and damaging forms of confidence, and healthy and
damaging forms of love, there are also healthy and damaging forms of hope. And the difference
between the two is not always clear.
So far, I’ve argued that hope is fundamental to our psychology, that we need to (a) have
something to look forward to, (b) believe ourselves in control of our fate enough to achieve that
something, and (c) find a community to achieve it with us. When we lack one or all of these for
too long, we lose hope and spiral into the void of the Uncomfortable Truth.
Experiences generate emotions. Emotions generate values. Values generate narratives of
meaning. And people who share similar narratives of meaning come together to generate
religions. The more effective (or affective) a religion, the more industrious and disciplined the
adherents. And the more industrious and disciplined the adherents, the more likely the religion is
to spread to other people, to give them a sense of self-control and a feeling of hope. These
religions grow and expand and eventually define in-groups versus out-groups, create rituals and
taboos, and spur conflict between groups with opposing values. These conflicts must exist
because they maintain the meaning and purpose for people within the group.
Therefore, it is the conflict that maintains the hope.

So, we’ve got it backward: everything being fucked doesn’t require hope; hope requires
everything being fucked.
The sources of hope that give our lives a sense of meaning are the same sources of division
and hate. The hope that brings the most joy to our lives is the same hope that brings the greatest
danger. The hope that brings people closest together is often the same hope that tears them apart.
Hope is, therefore, destructive. Hope depends on the rejection of what currently is.
Because hope requires that something be broken. Hope requires that we renounce a part of
ourselves and/or a part of the world. It requires us to be anti-something.
This paints an unbelievably bleak picture of the human condition. It means that our
psychological makeup is such that our only choices in life are either perpetual conflict or
nihilism—tribalism or isolation, religious war or the Uncomfortable Truth.
Nietzsche believed that none of the ideologies generated by the scientific revolution would hold
up in the long run. He believed that, one by one, they would slowly kill each other off and/or
collapse from within. Then, after a couple of centuries, the real existential crisis would begin.
Master morality would have been corrupted. Slave morality would have imploded. We would
have failed ourselves. For human frailties are such that everything we produce must be
impermanent and unreliable.
Nietzsche instead believed that we must look beyond hope. We must look beyond values. We
must evolve into something “beyond good and evil.” For him, this morality of the future had to
begin with something he called amor fati, or “love of one’s fate”: “My formula for greatness in a
human being,” he wrote, “is amor fati: that one wants nothing to be different, not forward, not
backward, not in all eternity. Not merely bear what is necessary, still less conceal it—all idealism
is mendacity in the face of what is necessary—but love it.”20
Amor fati, for Nietzsche, meant the unconditional acceptance of all life and experience: the
highs and the lows, the meaning and the meaninglessness. It meant loving one’s pain, embracing
one’s suffering. It meant closing the separation between one’s desires and reality not by striving
for more desires, but by simply desiring reality.
It basically meant: hope for nothing. Hope for what already is—because hope is ultimately
empty. Anything your mind can conceptualize is fundamentally flawed and limited and therefore
damaging if worshipped unconditionally. Don’t hope for more happiness. Don’t hope for less
suffering. Don’t hope to improve your character. Don’t hope to eliminate your flaws.
Hope for this. Hope for the infinite opportunity and oppression present in every single
moment. Hope for the suffering that comes with freedom. For the pain that comes from
happiness. For the wisdom that comes from ignorance. For the power that comes from surrender.
And then act despite it.
This is our challenge, our calling: To act without hope. To not hope for better. To be better.
In this moment and the next. And the next. And the next.
Everything is fucked. And hope is both the cause and the effect of that fuckedness.
This is hard to swallow, because weaning ourselves off the sweet nectar of hope is like
pulling a bottle away from a drunk. Without it, we believe we’ll fall back into the void and be
swallowed by the abyss. The Uncomfortable Truth frightens us, and so we spin stories and
values and narratives and myths and legends about ourselves and the world to keep that truth at
bay.
But the only thing that frees us is that truth: You and I and everyone we know will die, and
little to nothing that we do will ever matter on a cosmic scale. And while some people fear that
this truth will liberate them from all responsibility, that they’ll go snort an eight ball of cocaine

and play in traffic, the reality is that this truth scares them because it liberates them to
responsibility. It means that there’s no reason to not love ourselves and one another. That there’s
no reason to not treat ourselves and our planet with respect. That there’s no reason to not live
every moment of our lives as though it were to be lived in eternal recurrence.21
The second half of this book is an attempt to understand what a life without hope might look
like. The first thing I’ll say is that it’s not as bad as you think. In fact, I believe it is better than
the alternative.
The second half of this book is also an honest look at the modern world and everything that is
fucked with it. It’s an evaluation done in the hope not of fixing it, but of coming to love it.
Because we must break out of our cycle of religious conflict. We must emerge from our
ideological cocoons. We must let the Feeling Brain feel, but deny it the stories of meaning and
value that it so desperately craves. We must stretch beyond our conception of good and evil. We
must learn to love what is.

Amor Fati
It was Meta’s last day in Sils Maria, Switzerland, and she planned to spend as much of it as she
could outdoors.
Friedrich’s favorite walk was around the east bank of Lake Silvaplana, half a kilometer from
town. The lake was a shimmering, crystalline thing this time of year, wreathed by the mountains
on a horizon pulverized by white peaks. It was on walks around this lake that he and Meta had
first bonded four summers ago. This was how she wanted to spend her last day with him. This
was how she wanted to remember him.
They left shortly after breakfast. The sun was perfect, and the air was silky. She led, and he
hobbled along behind her with his walking stick. They passed barns and fields of cattle and a
small sugar beet farm. Friedrich joked that the cows would be his most intellectual companions
once Meta left. The two laughed and sang and picked walnuts as they went.
They stopped and ate around noon, beneath a larch tree. It was then that Meta began to
worry. They had come far in their excitement. Much farther than she had anticipated. And now
she could see that Friedrich was struggling, both physically and mentally, to keep it together.
The walk back was arduous for him. He dragged noticeably now. And the reality of her
leaving the next morning fell over them like an ominous moon, a pall upon their words.
He had grown grumpy, and achy. The stops were frequent. And he began muttering to
himself.
Not like this, Meta thought. She didn’t want to leave him like this, but she must.
It was late afternoon by the time they approached the village. The sun was waning, and the
air was now a burden. Friedrich lagged by a good twenty meters, yet Meta knew the only way to
get him all the way home was by not stopping for him.
They passed the same sugar beet farm, the same barn and the same cattle, his new
companions.
“What was that?” Friedrich shouted. “Where has God gone, you say?”
Meta turned around and knew what she would find before she even saw it: Friedrich, walking
stick waving in the air, shouting maniacally at a small group of cows chewing in front of him.
“I shall tell you,” he said, breathing heavily. He raised his stick and gestured to the
mountains around. “We have killed him—you and I! We are his murderers. But how have we

done this?”
The cows chewed placidly. One swatted a fly with its tail.
“How were we able to drink up the seas? Who gave us the sponge to wipe away the horizon?
What did we do when we unchained the earth from its sun? Are we not perpetually falling in all
directions? Are we not straying as though through some Infinite nothing?”22
“Friedrich, this is silly,” Meta said, trying to grab his sleeve and pull him along. But he
yanked his arm away; there was madness in his eyes.23
“Where is God? God is Dead. God remains dead. And we have killed him,” he declared.
“Please, stop this nonsense, Friedrich. Come on, let’s go to the house.”
“How shall we comfort ourselves, the murderers of all murderers? What was holiest and
mightiest of all has bled to death under our knives: who will wipe this blood off us?”
Meta shook her head. It was no use. This was it. This was how it would end. She began to
walk away.
“What water is there for us to clean ourselves? What festivals of atonement, what sacred
games shall we have to invent? Is not the greatness of this deed too great for us? Must we
ourselves not become gods simply to appear worthy of it?”
Silence. A moo rang out in the distance.
“Man is a rope, tied between beast and Superman—a rope over an abyss. What is great in
man is that he is a bridge and not a goal: what can be loved in man is that he is an overture [to
something greater.]”24
The words struck her. She turned and locked her gaze on his. It was this idea of man being an
overture to something greater that had drawn her to Nietzsche so many years ago. It was this
thought that had intellectually seduced her, because, for her, feminism and women’s liberation
(her ideological religion) were that “something greater.” But, she realized, to Nietzsche, it was
simply another construct, another conceit, another human failure, another dead god.
Meta would go on and do great things. In Germany and Austria, she would organize marches
for women’s suffrage—and achieve it. She would inspire thousands of women worldwide to
stand up for their own god projects, for their own redemption, their own liberation. She would
quietly, anonymously, change the world. She would liberate and free more human beings than
Nietzsche and most other “great” men, yet she would do this from the shadows, from the
backstage of history. Indeed, today, she is known mostly for being the friend of Friedrich
Nietzsche—not as a star of women’s liberation, but as a supporting character in a play about a
man who correctly prophesized a hundred years of ideological destruction. Like a hidden thread,
she would hold the world together, despite being barely seen and quickly forgotten.
She would go on, though. She knew she would. She must go on and attempt to cross the
abyss, as we all must do; to live for others despite still not knowing how to live for herself.
“Meta,” Nietzsche said.
“Yes?”
“I love those who do not know how to live,” he said. “For they are the ones who cross over.”

Part II:

Everything Is Fucked

Chapter 6

The Formula of Humanity
Depending on your perspective, the philosopher Immanuel Kant was either the most boring
person who ever lived or a productivity hacker’s wet dream. For forty years he woke up every
morning at five o’clock and wrote for exactly three hours. He would then lecture at the same
university for exactly four hours, and then eat lunch at the same restaurant every day. Then, in
the afternoon, he would go on an extended walk through the same park, on the same route,
leaving and returning home at the exact same time. He did this for forty years. Every. Single.
Day.1
Kant was efficiency personified. He was so mechanical in his habits, that his neighbors joked
that they could set their clocks by when he left his apartment. He would depart for his daily walk
at three thirty in the afternoon, have dinner with the same friend most evenings, and after
working some more, would go to bed at exactly ten every night.
Despite sounding like a colossal bore, Kant was one of the most important and influential
thinkers in world history. And from his single-room apartment in Königsberg, Prussia, he did
more to steer the world than most kings, presidents, prime ministers, or generals before and
since.
If you’re living in a democratic society that protects individual freedoms, you have Kant
partially to thank for that. He was one of the first to argue that all people have an inherent dignity
that must be regarded and respected.2 He was the first person ever to envision a global governing
body that could guarantee peace across much of the world (an idea that would eventually inspire
the formation of the United Nations).3 His descriptions of how we perceive space and time
would later help inspire Einstein’s discovery of the theory of relativity.4 He was one of the first
to suggest the possibility of animal rights.5 He reinvented the philosophy of aesthetics and
beauty.6 He resolved the two-hundred-year-old philosophical debate between rationalism and
empiricism in the span of a couple of hundred pages.7 And as if all that weren’t enough, he
reinvented moral philosophy, from top to bottom, overthrowing ideas that had been the basis of
Western civilization since Aristotle.8
Kant was an intellectual powerhouse. If Thinking Brains had biceps, Kant’s Thinking Brain
was the Mr. Olympia of the intellectual universe.
As with his lifestyle, Kant was rigid and uncompromising in his view of the world. He
believed that there was a clear right and wrong, a value system that transcended and operated
outside any human emotions or Feeling Brain judgments.9 Moreover, he lived what he preached.
Kings tried to censor him; priests condemned him; academics envied him. Yet none of this
slowed him down.
Kant didn’t give a fuck. And I mean that in the truest and profoundest sense of the phrase.10
He is the only thinker I have ever come across who eschewed hope and the flawed human values
it relied upon; who confronted the Uncomfortable Truth and refused to accept its horrible
implications; who gazed into the abyss with nothing but logic and pure reason; who, armed with

only the brilliance of his mind, stood before the gods and challenged them . . .
. . . and somehow won.11
But to understand Kant’s Herculean struggle, first we must take a detour, and learn about
psychological development, maturity, and adulthood.12

How to Grow Up
When I was, like, four years old, despite my mother warning me not to, I put my finger on a hot
stove. That day, I learned an important lesson: Really hot things suck. They burn you. And you
want to avoid touching them ever again.
Around the same time, I made another important discovery: ice cream was stored in the
freezer, on a shelf that could be easily accessed if I stood on my tippy toes. One day, while my
mother was in the other room (poor Mom), I grabbed the ice cream, sat on the floor, and
proceeded to gorge myself using my bare hands.
It was the closest I would come to an orgasm for another ten years. If there was a heaven in
my little four-year-old mind, I had just found it: my own little Elysium in a bucket of congealed
divinity. As the ice cream began to melt, I smeared an extra helping across my face, letting it
dribble all over my shirt. This was all happening in slow motion, of course. I was practically
bathing in that sweet, tasty goodness. Oh yes, glorious sugary milk, share with me your secrets,
for today I shall know greatness.
Then Mom walked in—and all hell broke loose, which included but was not limited to a
much-needed bath.
I learned a couple of lessons that day. One, stealing ice cream and then dumping it all over
yourself and the kitchen floor makes your mother extremely angry. And two, angry mothers
suck; they scold you and punish you. That day, much like the day with the hot stove, I learned
what not to do.
But there was a third, meta-lesson being taught here, one of those lessons that are so obvious
we don’t even notice when they happen, a lesson that was far more important than the other
lessons: eating ice cream is better than being burned.
This lesson was important because it was a value judgment. Ice cream is better than hot
stoves. I prefer sugary sweetness in my mouth than a bit of fire on my hand. It was the discovery
of preference and, therefore, prioritization. It was my Feeling Brain’s decision that one thing in
the world was better than another, the construction of my early value hierarchy.
A friend of mine once described parenthood as “basically just following around a kid for a
couple decades and making sure he doesn’t accidentally kill himself—and you’d be amazed how
many ways a kid can find to accidentally kill himself.”
Young children are always looking for new ways to accidentally kill themselves because the
driving force behind their psychology is exploration. Early in life, we are driven to explore the
world around us because our Feeling Brains are collecting information on what pleases and
harms us, what feels good and bad, what is worth pursuing further and what is worth avoiding.
We’re building up our value hierarchy, figuring out what our first and primary values are, so that
we can begin to know what to hope for.13
Eventually, the exploratory phase exhausts itself. And not because we run out of world to
explore. Actually, it’s the opposite: the exploratory phase wraps up because as we become older,
we begin to recognize that there’s too much world to explore. You can’t touch and taste

everything. You can’t meet all the people. You can’t see all the things. There’s too much
potential experience, and the sheer magnitude of our own existence overwhelms and intimidates
us.
Therefore, our two brains begin to focus less on trying everything and more on developing
some rules to help us navigate the endless complexity of the world before us. We adopt most of
these rules from our parents and teachers, but many of them we figure out for ourselves. For
instance, after fucking around near open flames enough, you develop a little mental rule that all
flames are dangerous, not just the stove ones. And after seeing Mom get pissed off enough times,
you begin to figure out that raiding the freezer and stealing dessert is always bad, not just when
it’s ice cream.14
As a result, some general principles begin to emerge in our minds: take care around
dangerous things so you won’t get hurt; be honest with your parents and they’ll treat you well;
share with your siblings and they’ll share with you.
These new values are more sophisticated because they’re abstract. You can’t point to
“fairness” or draw a picture of “prudence.” The little kid thinks, ice cream is awesome; therefore,
I want ice cream. But the adolescent thinks, ice cream is awesome, but stealing stuff pisses my
parents off and I’ll get punished; therefore, I’m not going to take the ice cream from the freezer.
The adolescent applies if/then rules to her decision making, thinking through cause-and-effect
chains in a way that a young child cannot.
As a result, an adolescent learns that strictly pursuing her own pleasure and avoiding pain
often creates problems. Actions have consequences. You must negotiate your desires with the
desires of those around you. You must play by the rules of society and authority, and then, more
often than not, you’ll be rewarded.

Figure 6.1: A child thinks only about his own pleasure, whereas an adolescent learns to navigate
rules and principles to achieve her goals.

This is maturity in action: developing higher-level and more abstract values to enhance
decision making in a wider range of contexts. This is how you adjust to the world, how you learn
to handle the seemingly infinite permutations of experience. It is a major cognitive leap for
children and fundamental to growing up in a healthy, happy way.

Young children are like little tyrants.15 They struggle to conceive of anything in life beyond
what is immediately pleasurable or painful for them at any given moment. They cannot feel
empathy. They cannot imagine what life is like in your shoes. All they know is that they want
some fucking ice cream.16
A young child’s identity is therefore very small and fragile. It is constituted by simply what
gives pleasure and what avoids pain. Susie likes chocolate. She is afraid of dogs. She enjoys
coloring. She is often mean to her brother. This is the extent of Susie’s identity because her
Thinking Brain has not yet developed enough meaning to create coherent stories for her. It’s only
when she’s old enough to ask what the pleasure is for, what the pain is for, that she can develop
some meaningful narratives for herself, and establish identity.
The knowledge of pleasure and pain is still there in adolescence. It’s just that pleasure and
pain no longer dictate most decision making.17 They are no longer the basis of our values. Older
children weigh their personal feelings against their understanding of rules, trade-offs, and the
social order around them to plan and make decisions. This gives them larger, sturdier identities.18
The adolescent does the same stumbling around the young child does in learning what is
pleasurable and what is painful, except the adolescent stumbles around by trying on different
social rules and roles. If I wear this, will it make me cool? If I talk like that, will it make people
like me? If I pretend to enjoy this music, will I be popular?19
This is an improvement, but there’s still a weakness in this adolescent approach to life.
Everything is seen as a trade-off. Adolescents approach life as an endless series of bargains: I
will do what my boss says so I can get money. I will call my mother so I don’t get yelled at. I
will do my homework so I don’t fuck up my future. I will lie and pretend to be nice so I don’t
have to deal with conflict.
Nothing is done for its own sake. Everything is a calculated transaction, usually made out of
fear of the negative repercussions. Everything is a means to some pleasurable end.20
The problem with adolescent values is that if you hold them, you never actually stand for
something outside yourself. You are still at heart a child, albeit a cleverer and much more
sophisticated child. Everything still revolves around maximizing pleasure and minimizing pain,
it’s just that the adolescent is savvy enough to think a few moves ahead to get there.
In the end, adolescent values are self-defeating. You can’t live your entire life this way,
otherwise you’re never actually living your own life. You’re merely living out an aggregation of
the desires of the people around you.
To become an emotionally healthy individual, you must break out of this constant
bargaining, endlessly treating everyone as a means to some pleasurable end, and come to
understand even higher and more abstract guiding principles.

How to Be an Adult
When you google “how to be an adult,” most of the results focus on preparing for job interviews,
managing your finances, cleaning up after yourself, and not being a total asshole. These things
are all great, and indeed, they are all things that adults are expected to do. But I would argue that,
by themselves, they do not make you an adult. They simply prevent you from being a child,
which is not the same thing.
That’s because most people who do these things do them because they are rule- and
transaction-based. They are a means to some superficial end. You prepare for a job interview
because you want to get a good job. You learn how to clean your house because its level of

cleanliness has direct consequences on what people think of you. You manage your finances
because if you don’t, you will be royally fucked one day down the road. Bargaining with rules
and the social order allows us to be well-functioning human beings in the world.
Eventually, though, we realize that the most important things in life cannot be gained through
bargaining. You don’t want to bargain with your father for love, or your friends for
companionship, or your boss for respect. Bargaining with people into loving or respecting you
feels shitty. It undermines the whole project. If you have to convince someone to love you, then
they don’t love you. If you have to cajole someone into respecting you, then they will never
respect you. If you have to convince someone to trust you, then they won’t actually trust you.
The most precious and important things in life are, by definition, nontransactional. And to try
to bargain for them is to immediately destroy them. You cannot conspire for happiness; it is
impossible. But this is often what people try to do, especially when they seek out self-help and
other personal development advice—they are essentially saying, “Show me the rules of the game
I have to play, and I’ll play it,” not realizing that it’s the very fact that they think there are rules
to happiness that is preventing them from being happy.21
While people who navigate life through bargaining and rules can get far in the material
world, they remain crippled and alone in their emotional world. This is because transactional
values create relationships that are built upon manipulation.
Adulthood is the realization that sometimes an abstract principle is right and good for its own
sake, that even if it hurts you today, even if it hurts others, being honest is still the right thing to
do. In the same way that the adolescent realizes there’s more to the world than the child’s
pleasure or pain, the adult realizes that there’s more to the world than the adolescent’s constant
bargaining for validation, approval, and satisfaction. Becoming an adult is therefore developing
the ability to do what is right for the simple reason that it is right.
An adolescent will say that she values honesty only because she has learned that saying so
produces good results. But when confronted with difficult conversations, she will tell white lies,
exaggerate the truth, and become passive-aggressive. An adult will be honest for the simple sake
that honesty is more important than her own pleasure or pain. Honesty is more important than
getting what you want or achieving a goal. Honesty is inherently good and valuable, in and of
itself. Honesty is therefore an end, not a means to some other end.
An adolescent will say he loves you, but his conception of love is that he is getting something
in return, that love is merely an emotional swap meet, where you each bring everything you have
to offer and haggle with each other for the best deal. An adult will love freely without expecting
anything in return because an adult understands that that is the only thing that can make love
real. An adult will give without seeking anything in return, because to do so defeats the purpose
of a gift in the first place.
The principled values of adulthood are unconditional—that is, they cannot be reached
through any other means. They are ends in and of themselves.22

Figure 6.2: An adult is able to eschew his own pleasure for the sake of his principles.

There are plenty of grown-ass children in the world. And there are a lot of aging adolescents.
Hell, there are even some young adults out there. That’s because, past a certain point, maturity
has nothing to do with age.23 What matters are a person’s intentions. The difference between a
child, an adolescent, and an adult is not how old they are or what they do, but why they do
something. The child steals the ice cream because it feels good, and he is oblivious or indifferent
to the consequences. The adolescent doesn’t steal because he knows it will create worse
consequences in the future, but his decision is ultimately a bargain with his future self: I’ll forgo
some pleasure now to prevent greater future pain.24
But it’s only the adult who doesn’t steal for the simple principle that stealing is wrong. And
to steal, even if she gets away with it, would make her feel worse about herself.25

Why We Don’t Grow
When we are little kids, the way we learn to transcend the pleasure/pain values (“ice cream is
good; hot stoves are bad”) is by pursuing those values and seeing how they fail us. It’s only by
experiencing the pain of their failure that we learn to transcend them.26 We steal the ice cream,
Mom gets pissed off and punishes us. Suddenly, “ice cream is good” doesn’t seem as
straightforward as it used to—there are all sorts of other factors to consider. I like ice cream. And
I like Mom. But taking the ice cream will upset Mom. What do I do? Eventually, the child is
forced to reckon with the fact that there are trade-offs that must be negotiated.

This is essentially what good early parenting boils down to: implementing the correct
consequences for a child’s pleasure/pain-driven behavior. Punish them for stealing ice cream;
reward them for sitting quietly in a restaurant. You are helping them understand that life is far
more complicated than their own impulses or desires. Parents who fail to do this fail their
children in an incredibly fundamental way because it won’t take long for the child to have the
shocking realization that the world does not cater to his whims. Learning this as an adult is
incredibly painful—far more painful than it would have been had the child learned the lesson
when he was younger. He will be socially punished by his peers and society for not
understanding it. Nobody wants to be friends with a selfish brat. No one wants to work with
someone who doesn’t consider others’ feelings or appreciate rules. No society accepts someone
who metaphorically (or literally) steals the ice cream from the freezer. The untaught child will be
shunned, ridiculed, and punished for his behavior in the adult world, which will result in even
more pain and suffering.
Parents can fail their children in another way: they can abuse them.27 An abused child also
does not develop beyond his pain- and pleasure-driven values because his punishment follows no
logical pattern and doesn’t reinforce deeper, more abstract values. Instead of predictable failures,
his experience is just random and cruel. Stealing ice cream sometimes results in overly harsh
punishment. At other times, it results in no consequences at all. Therefore, no lesson is learned.
No higher values are produced. No development takes place. The child never learns to control
his own behavior and develops coping mechanisms to deal with the incessant pain. This is why
children who are abused and children who are coddled often end up with the same issues when
they become adults: they remain stuck in their childhood value system.28
Ultimately, graduating to adolescence requires trust. A child must trust that her behavior will
produce predictable outcomes. Stealing always creates bad outcomes. Touching a hot stove also
creates bad outcomes. Trusting in these outcomes is what allows the child to develop rules and
principles around them. The same is true once the child grows older and enters society. A society
without trustworthy institutions or leaders cannot develop rules and roles. Without trust, there are
no reliable principles to dictate decisions, therefore everything devolves back into childish
selfishness.29
People get stuck in the adolescent stage of values for similar reasons that they get stuck with
childish values: trauma and/or neglect. Victims of bullying are a particularly notable example. A
person who has been bullied in his younger years will move through the world with an assumed
understanding that no one will ever like or respect him unconditionally, that all affection must be
hard-won through a series of practiced conversation and canned actions. You must dress a
certain way. You must speak a certain way. You must act a certain way—or else.30
Some people become incredibly good at playing the bargaining game. They tend to be
charming and charismatic and are naturally able to sense what other people want of them and to
fill that role. This manipulation rarely fails them in any meaningful way, so they come to believe
that this is simply how the whole world operates. Life is one big high school gymnasium, and
you must shove people into lockers lest ye be shoved first.
Adolescents need to be shown that bargaining is a never-ending treadmill, that the only
things in life of real value and meaning are achieved without conditions, without transactions. It
requires good parents and teachers not to succumb to the adolescent’s bargaining. The best way
to do this is by example, of course, by showing unconditionality by being unconditional yourself.
The best way to teach an adolescent to trust is to trust him. The best way to teach an adolescent

respect is to respect him. The best way to teach someone to love is by loving him. And you don’t
force the love or trust or respect on him—after all, that would make those things conditional—
you simply give them, understanding that at some point, the adolescent’s bargaining will fail and
he’ll understand the value of unconditionality when he’s ready.31
When parents and teachers fail, it’s usually because they themselves are stuck at an
adolescent level of values. They, too, see the world in transactional terms. They, too, bargain
love for sex, loyalty for affection, respect for obedience. In fact, they likely bargain with their
kids for affection, love, or respect. They think this is normal, so the kid grows up thinking it’s
normal. And the shitty, shallow, transactional parent/child relationship is then replicated when
the kid goes out and forms relationships in the world, because he then becomes a teacher or
parent and imparts his adolescent values on children, causing the whole mess to continue for
another generation.
Once older, adolescent-minded people will move through the world assuming that all human
relationships are a never-ending trade agreement, that intimacy is no more than a feigned sense
of knowing the other person for the mutual benefit of each one, that everyone is a means to some
selfish end. And instead of recognizing that their problems are rooted in the transactional
approach to the world itself, they will assume that the only problem is that it took them so long to
do the transactions correctly.
It’s difficult to act unconditionally. You love someone knowing you may not be loved in
return, but you do it anyway. You trust someone even though you realize you might get hurt or
screwed over. That’s because to act unconditionally requires some degree of faith—faith that it’s
the right thing to do even if it results in more pain, even if it doesn’t work out for you or the
other person.
Making the leap of faith into a virtuous adulthood requires not just an ability to endure pain,
but also the courage to abandon hope, to let go of the desire for things always to be better or
more pleasant or a ton of fun. Your Thinking Brain will tell you that this is illogical, that your
assumptions must inevitably be wrong in some way. Yet, you do it anyway. Your Feeling Brain
will procrastinate and freak out about the pain of brutal honesty, the vulnerability that comes
with loving someone, the fear that comes from humility. Yet, you do it anyway.
CHILDHOOD

ADOLESCENCE

ADULTHOOD

VALUES

Pleasure/pain

Rules and roles

Virtues

SEES
RELATIONSHIPS
AS . . .

Power struggles

Performances

Vulnerability

SELF-WORTH

Narcissistic:
wide
swings
between “I’m the best” and
“I’m the worst”

Other-dependent:
externally validated

Independent:
largely internally
validated

MOTIVATION

Self-aggrandizement

Self-acceptance

Amor fati

POLITICS

Extremist/nihilist

Pragmatic, ideological

Pragmatic,
nonideological

IN ORDER TO
GROW,
HE/SHE
NEEDS . . .

Trustworthy institutions and
dependable people

Courage to let go
outcomes and faith
unconditional acts

of
in

Consistent
awareness

self-

Adult behaviors are ultimately seen as admirable and noteworthy. It’s the boss who takes the
fall for his employees’ mistakes, the mother who gives up her own happiness for her child’s, the
friend who tells you what you need to hear even though it upsets you.
It’s these people who hold the world together. Without them, we’d all likely be fucked.
It’s no coincidence, then, that all the world’s great religions push people toward these
unconditional values, whether it’s the unconditional forgiveness of Jesus Christ or the Noble
Eightfold Path of the Buddha or the perfect justice of Muhammad. In their purest forms, the
world’s great religions leverage our human instinct for hope to try to pull people upward toward
adult virtues.32
Or, at least, that’s usually the original intention.
Unfortunately, as they grow, religions inevitably get co-opted by transactional adolescents
and narcissist children, people who pervert the religious principles for their own personal gain.
Every human religion succumbs to this failure of moral frailty at some point. No matter how
beautiful and pure its doctrines, it ultimately becomes a human institution, and all human
institutions eventually become corrupted.
Enlightenment philosophers, excited by the opportunities afforded the world by growth,
decided to remove the spirituality from religion and get the job done with ideological religion.
They jettisoned the idea of virtue and instead focused on measurable, concrete goals: creating
greater happiness and less suffering; giving people greater personal liberties and freedoms; and
promoting compassion, empathy, and equality.
And these ideological religions, like the spiritual religions before them, also caved to the
flawed nature of all human institutions. When you attempt to barter for happiness, you destroy
happiness. When you try to enforce freedom, you negate freedom. When you try to create
equality, you undermine equality.
None of these ideological religions confronted the fundamental issue at hand: conditionality.
They either didn’t admit to or didn’t deal with the fact that whatever you make your God Value,
you will always be willing, at some point, to bargain away human life in order to get closer to it.
Worshipping some supernatural God, some abstract principle, some bottomless desire, when
pursued long enough, will always result in giving up your own humanity or the humanity of
others in order to achieve the aims of that worship. And what was supposed to save you from
suffering then plunges you back into suffering. The cycle of hope-destruction begins anew.
And this is where Kant comes in . . .

The One Rule for Life
Early in his life, Kant understood the Whac-A-Mole game of maintaining hope in the face of the
Uncomfortable Truth. And like everyone who becomes aware of this cruel cosmic game, he
despaired. But he refused to accept the game. He refused to believe that there was no inherent
value in existence. He refused to believe that we are forever cursed to conjure stories to give our
lives an arbitrary sense of meaning. So, he set out to use his big-biceped Thinking Brain to figure
out what value without hope would look like.
Kant started with a simple observation. In all the universe, there is only one thing that, from
what we can tell, is completely scarce and unique: consciousness. To Kant, the only thing that
distinguishes us from the rest of the matter in the universe is our ability to reason—we’re able to
take the world around us and, through reasoning and will, improve upon it. This, to him, was
special, exceedingly special—a miracle, almost—because for everything in the infinite span of

existence, we are the only thing (that we know of) that can actually direct existence. In the
known cosmos, we are the only sources of ingenuity and creativity. We are the only ones who
can direct our own fate. We are the only ones who are self-aware. And for all we know, we are
the only shot the universe has at intelligent self-organization.
Therefore, Kant cleverly deduced that, logically, the supreme value in the universe is the
thing that conceives of value itself. The only true meaning in existence is the ability to form
meaning. The only importance is the thing that decides importance.33
And this ability to choose meaning, to imagine importance, to invent purpose, is the only
force in the known universe that can propagate itself, that can spread its intelligence and generate
greater and greater levels of organization throughout the cosmos. Kant believed that without
rationality, the universe would be a waste, in vain, and without purpose. Without intelligence,
and the freedom to exercise that intelligence, we might as well all be a bunch of rocks. Rocks
don’t change. They don’t conceive of values, systems, or organizations. They don’t alter,
improve, or create. They’re just there.
But consciousness—consciousness can reorganize the universe, and that reorganization can
add upon itself exponentially. Consciousness is able to take a problem, a system of a certain
amount of complexity, and conceive and generate greater complexity. In a thousand years, we
went from twiddling sticks in a small cave to designing entire digital realms connecting the
minds of billions. In another thousand, we could easily be among the stars, reshaping the planets
and space/time itself. Each individual action may not matter in the grand scheme of things, but
the preservation and promotion of rational consciousness overall matters more than anything.
Kant argued that the most fundamental moral duty is the preservation and growth of
consciousness, both in ourselves and in others. He called this principle of always putting
consciousness first “the Formula of Humanity,” and it kind of explains . . . well, like, everything,
ever. It explains our basic moral intuitions. It explains the classic concept of virtue.34 It explains
how to act in our day-to-day lives without relying on some imagined vision of hope. It explains
how to not be an asshole.
And, as if that weren’t enough, it explains all of it in a single sentence. The Formula of
Humanity states, “Act that you use humanity, whether in your own person or in the person of any
other, always at the same time as an end, never merely as a means.”35
That’s it. The Formula of Humanity is the single principle that pulls people out of adolescent
bargaining and into adult virtue.36
See, the problem with hope is that it is fundamentally transactional—it is a bargain between
one’s current actions for some imagined, pleasant future. Don’t eat this, and you’ll go to heaven.
Don’t kill that person, or you’ll get in trouble. Work hard and save your money, because that will
make you happy.
To transcend the transactional realm of hope, one must act unconditionally. You must love
someone without expecting anything in return; otherwise it’s not truly love. You must respect
someone without expecting anything in return; otherwise you don’t truly respect him. You must
speak honestly without expecting a pat on the back or a high-five or a gold star next to your
name; otherwise you aren’t truly being honest.
Kant summed up these unconditional acts with one simple principle: you must treat humanity
never merely as a means, but always as an end itself.37
But what does this look like in day-to-day life? Here’s a simple example:
Let’s pretend that I’m hungry and I want a burrito. I get in my car and drive to Chipotle and
order my usual double-meat monster that makes me oh so happy. In this situation, eating the

burrito is my “end” goal. It’s ultimately why I’m doing everything else: getting in the car,
driving, buying gas, and so on. All these things I do to get the burrito are the “means,” i.e., the
things I must do in order to achieve my “end.”
Means are things that we do conditionally. They are what we bargain with. I don’t want to
get in my car and drive, and I don’t want to pay for gas, but I do want a burrito. Therefore, I must
do these other things to get that burrito.
An end is something that is desired for its own sake. It is the defining motivating factor of
our decisions and behaviors. If I wanted to eat a burrito only because my wife wanted a burrito
and I wanted to make her happy, then the burrito is no longer my end; it is now a means to an
even greater end: making my wife happy. And if I only wanted to make my wife happy so I
could get laid tonight, now my wife’s happiness is a means to a greater end, which in this case is
sex.
Likely that last example made you squirm a little bit, made you feel that I’m kind of a
dirtbag.38 That’s exactly what Kant is talking about. His Formula of Humanity states that treating
any human being (or any consciousness) as a means to some other end is the basis of all wrong
behavior. So, treating a burrito as a means to my wife’s end is fine. It’s good to make your
spouse happy sometimes! But if I treat my wife as a means to the end of sex, then I am now
treating her merely as a means, and as Kant would argue, that is some shade of wrong.
Similarly, lying is wrong because you are misleading another person’s conscious behavior in
order to achieve your own goal. You are treating that person as a means to your own end.
Cheating is unethical for a similar reason. You are violating the expectations of other rational
and sentient beings for your own personal aims. You are treating everyone else who is taking the
same test or following the same rules as a means to your own personal end. Violence, same deal:
you are treating another person as a means to some greater political or personal end. Bad, reader.
Bad!
Kant’s Formula of Humanity doesn’t only describe our moral intuition into what’s wrong; it
also explains the adult virtues, those actions and behaviors that are good for their own sake.
Honesty is good in and of itself because it’s the only form of communication that doesn’t treat
people merely as a means. Courage is good in and of itself because to fail to act is to treat either
yourself or others as a means to the end of quelling your fear. Humility is good in and of itself
because to fall into blind certainty is to treat others as a means to your own ends.
If there were ever to be a single rule to describe all desirable human behavior, the Formula of
Humanity would probably be it. But here’s the beautiful thing: unlike other moral systems or
codes, the Formula of Humanity does not rely on hope. There’s no great system to force onto the
world, no faith-based supernatural beliefs to protect from doubt or lack of evidence.
The Formula of Humanity is merely a principle. It doesn’t project some future utopia. It
doesn’t lament some hellish past. No one is better or worse or more righteous than anyone else.
All that matters is that conscious will is respected and protected. End of story.
Because Kant understood that when you get into the business of deciding and dictating the
future, you unleash the destructive potential of hope. You start worrying about converting people
rather than honoring them, destroying evil in others rather than rooting it out in yourself.
Instead, he decided that the only logical way to improve the world is through improving
ourselves—by growing up and becoming more virtuous—by making the simple decision, in each
moment, to treat ourselves and others as ends, and never merely as means. Be honest. Don’t
distract or harm yourself. Don’t shirk responsibility or succumb to fear. Love openly and
fearlessly. Don’t cave to tribal impulses or hopeful deceits. Because there is no heaven or hell in

the future. There are only the choices you make in each and every moment.
Will you act conditionally or unconditionally? Will you treat others as merely means or as
ends? Will you pursue adult virtue or childish narcissism?
Hope doesn’t even have to enter into the equation. Don’t hope for a better life. Simply be a
better life.
Kant understood that there is a fundamental link between our respect for ourselves and our
respect for the world. The values that define our identity are the templates that we apply to our
interactions with others, and little progress can be made with others until we’ve made progress
within ourselves.39 When we pursue a life full of pleasure and simple satisfaction, we are treating
ourselves as a means to our pleasurable ends. Therefore, self-improvement is not the cultivation
of greater happiness but, rather, a cultivation of greater self-respect. Telling ourselves that we are
worthless and shitty is just as wrong as telling others that they are worthless and shitty. Lying to
ourselves is just as unethical as lying to others. Harming ourselves is just as repugnant as
harming others. Self-love and self-care are therefore not something you learn about or practice.
They are something you are ethically called to cultivate within yourself, even if they are all that
you have left.
The Formula of Humanity has a ripple effect: your improved ability to be honest with
yourself will increase how honest you are with others, and your honesty with others will
influence them to be more honest with themselves, which will help them to grow and mature.
Your ability not to treat yourself as a means to some other end will in turn allow you to better
treat others as ends. Therefore, your cleaning up your relationship with yourself has the positive
by-product of cleaning up your relationships with others, which then enables them to clean up
their relationships with themselves, and so on.
This is how you change the world—not through some all-encompassing ideology or mass
religious conversion or misplaced dreams of the future, but by achieving the maturation and
dignity of each individual in the present, here and now. There will always be different religions
and different value systems based on culture and experience; there will always be different ideas
about where we’re going and where we’ve come from. But, as Kant believed, the simple
question of dignity and respect in each moment must be universal.

The Modern Maturity Crisis
Modern democracy was invented under the assumption that the average person is a selfish and
delusional piece of shit, that the only way to protect us from ourselves is to create systems so
interlocking and interdependent that no one person or group can completely hose the rest of the
population.
Politics is a transactional and selfish game, and democracy is the best system of government
thus far for the sole reason that it’s the only system that openly admits that. It acknowledges that
power attracts corrupt and childish people. Power, by its very nature, forces leaders to be
transactional. Therefore, the only way to manage that is by enshrining adult virtues into the
design of the system itself.
Freedom of speech, freedom of the press, guarantees of privacy and of the right to a fair trial
—these are all implementations of the Formula of Humanity in social institutions, and they are
implemented in such a way that they are incredibly difficult to threaten or change.
There’s really only one way to threaten a democratic system: when one group decides that its
values are more important than the system itself and it subverts the religion of democracy with

some other, likely less virtuous, religion . . . and political extremism grows.
Political extremists, because they are intractable and impossible to bargain with, are, by
definition, childish. They’re a bunch of fucking babies. Extremists want the world to be a certain
way, and they refuse to acknowledge any interests or values outside their own. They refuse to
negotiate. They refuse to appeal to a higher virtue or principle above their own selfish desires.
And they cannot be trusted to follow through on the expectations of others. They are also
unabashedly authoritarian because, as children, they are desperate for an all-powerful parent to
come and make everything “all right.”40
The most dangerous extremists know how to dress up their childish values in the language of
transaction or universal principle. A right-wing extremist will claim she desires “freedom” above
all else and that she’s willing to make sacrifices for that freedom. But what she really means is
that she wants freedom from having to deal with any values that do not map onto her own. She
wants freedom from having to deal with change or the marginalization of other people.
Therefore, she’s willing to limit and destroy the freedom of others in the name of her own
freedom.41
Extremists on the left play the same game, the only thing that changes is the language. A
leftie extremist will say that he wants “equality” for all, but what he really means is that he never
wants anyone to feel pain, to feel harmed, or to feel inferior. He doesn’t want anyone to have to
face moral gaps, ever. And he’s willing to cause pain and adversity to others in the name of
eliminating those moral gaps.
Extremism, on both the right and the left, has become more politically prominent across the
world in the past few decades.42 Many smart people have suggested many complicated and
overlapping explanations for this. And there likely are many complicated and overlapping
reasons.43
But allow me to throw out another one: that the maturity of our culture is deteriorating.
Throughout the rich and developed world, we are not living through a crisis of wealth or
material, but a crisis of character, a crisis of virtue, a crisis of means and ends. The fundamental
political schism in the twenty-first century is no longer right versus left, but the impulsive
childish values of the right and left versus the compromising adolescent/adult values of both the
right and left. It’s no longer a debate of communism versus capitalism or freedom versus equality
but, rather, of maturity versus immaturity, of means versus ends.

Chapter 7

Pain Is the Universal Constant
One by one, the researchers shuttled the subjects down a hall and into a small room. Inside was a
single beige computer console with a blank screen and two buttons, and nothing else.1
The instructions were simple: sit, stare at the screen, and if a blue dot flashes on it, press the
button that reads, “Blue.” If a purple dot flashes on the screen, press the button that reads, “Not
Blue.”
Sounds easy, right?
Well, each subject had to look at a thousand dots. Yes, a thousand. And when a subject
finished, the researchers brought in another subject and repeated the process: beige console,
blank screen, a thousand dots. Next! This went on with hundreds of subjects at multiple
universities.
Were these psychologists researching a new form of psychological torture? Was this an
experiment into the limitations of human boredom? No. Actually, the scope of the study was
matched only by its inanity. It was a study with seismic implications, because more than any
other academic study in recent memory, it explains much of what we see happening in the world
today.
The psychologists were researching something they would call “prevalence-induced concept
change.” But because that’s an absolutely awful name, for our purposes, I will refer to their
discovery as the “Blue Dot Effect.”2
Here’s the deal with the dots: Most of them were blue. Some of them were purple. Some of them
were some shade in between blue and purple.
The researchers discovered that when they showed mostly blue dots, everyone was pretty
accurate in determining which dots were blue and which ones were not. But as soon as the
researchers started limiting the number of blue dots, and showing more shades of purple, the
subjects began to mistake purple dots for blue. It seemed that their eyes distorted the colors and
continued to seek a certain number of blue dots, no matter how many were actually shown.
Okay, big deal, right? People mis-see stuff all the time. And besides, when you’re staring at
dots for hours on end, you might start to go cross-eyed and see all sorts of weird shit.
But the blue dots weren’t the point; they were merely a way to measure how humans warp
their perceptions to fit their expectations. Once the researchers had enough data on blue dots to
put their lab assistants into a coma, they moved on to more important perceptions.
For example: next, the researchers showed the subjects pictures of faces that were some
degree of threatening, friendly, or neutral. Initially, they showed them a large number of
threatening faces. But as the experiment went on, as with the blue dots, they showed fewer and
fewer—and the same effect occurred: the fewer threatening faces subjects were shown, the more
the subjects began to misread friendly and neutral faces as being threatening. In the same way
that the human mind seemed to have a “preset” number of blue dots it expected to see, it also had

a preset number of threatening faces it expected to see.
Then the researchers went even further, because—fuck it, why not? It’s one thing to see
threats where there are none, but what about moral judgments? What about believing there’s
more evil in the world than there actually is?
This time, the researchers had the subjects read job proposals. Some of these proposals were
unethical, involving some shady shit. Some proposals were totally innocuous and fine. Others
were some gradation in between.
Once again, the researchers began by showing a mix of ethical and unethical proposals, and
the subjects were told to keep an eye out for unethical proposals. Then, slowly, the researchers
exposed people to fewer and fewer unethical proposals. As they did, the Blue Dot Effect kicked
in. People began to interpret completely ethical proposals as being unethical. Rather than
noticing that more proposals were showing up on the ethical side of the fence, people’s minds
moved the fence itself to maintain the perception that a certain number of proposals and requests
were unethical. Basically, they redefined what was unethical without being consciously aware of
doing so.
As the researchers noted, this bias has incredibly upsetting implications for . . . well, pretty
much everything. Governmental committees designed to oversee regulations, when provided
with a dearth of infractions, may start to perceive infractions where there are none. Task forces
designed to check unethical practices within organizations will, when deprived of bad guys to
accuse of wrongdoing, begin imagining bad guys where there are none.
The Blue Dot Effect suggests that, essentially, the more we look for threats, the more we will
see them, regardless of how safe or comfortable our environment actually is. And we see this
playing out in the world today.
It used to be that being the victim of violence meant somebody had physically harmed you.
Today, many people have begun to use the word violence to describe words that made them feel
uncomfortable, or even just the presence of a person they disliked.3 Trauma used to mean
specifically an experience so severe that the victim could not continue to function. Today, an
unpleasant social encounter or a few offensive words are considered “trauma,” and necessitate
“safe spaces.”4 Genocide used to mean the physical mass murder of a certain ethnic or religious
group. Today, the term white genocide is employed by some to lament the fact that the local
diner now lists some of its menu items in Spanish.5
This is the Blue Dot Effect. The better things get, the more we perceive threats where there
are none, and the more upset we become. And it is at the heart of the paradox of progress.
In the nineteenth century, Emile Durkheim, the founder of sociology and an early pioneer of the
social sciences, ran a thought experiment in one of his books: What if there were no crime? What
if there emerged a society where everyone was perfectly respectful and nonviolent and everyone
was equal? What if no one lied or hurt each other? What if corruption did not exist? What would
happen? Would conflict cease? Would stress evaporate? Would everyone frolic in fields picking
daisies and singing the “Hallelujah” chorus from Handel’s Messiah?6
Durkheim said no, that in fact the opposite would happen. He suggested that the more
comfortable and ethical a society became, the more that small indiscretions would become
magnified in our minds. If everyone stopped killing each other, we wouldn’t necessarily feel
good about it. We’d just get equally upset about the more minor stuff.
Developmental psychology has long argued something similar: that protecting people from
problems or adversity doesn’t make them happier or more secure; it makes them more easily

insecure. A young person who has been sheltered from dealing with any challenges or injustices
growing up will come to find the slightest inconveniences of adult life intolerable, and will have
the childish public meltdown to prove it.7
What we find, then, is that our emotional reactions to our problems are not determined by the
size of the problem. Rather, our minds simply amplify (or minimize) our problems to fit the
degree of stress we expect to experience. Material progress and security do not necessarily relax
us or make it easier to hope for the future. On the contrary, it appears that perhaps by removing
healthy adversity and challenge, people struggle even more. They become more selfish and more
childish. They fail to develop and mature out of adolescence. They remain further removed from
any virtue. They see mountains where there are molehills. And they scream at each other as
though the world were one endless stream of spilled milk.

Traveling at the Speed of Pain
Recently, I read a cool Albert Einstein quote on the internet: “A man should look for what is, and
not what he thinks should be.” It was great. There was a cute little picture with him looking all
science-y and everything. The quote is poignant and smart-sounding, and it engaged me for all of
a couple of seconds before I scrolled on my phone to the next thing.
Except there was one problem: Einstein didn’t say it.
Here’s another viral Einstein quote that gets passed around a lot: “Everyone is a genius. But
if you judge a fish by its ability to climb a tree, it will live its whole life believing that it is
stupid.”
That’s not Einstein, either.
Or how about “I fear the day when the technology overlaps with our humanity. The world
will only have a generation of idiots”?8
Nope, not him.
Einstein might be the most ill-used historical figure on the internet. He’s like our culture’s
“smart friend,” the one we say agrees with us to make us sound smarter than we actually are. His
poor mug has been plastered next to quotes about everything from God to mental illness to
energy healing. None of which has anything to do with science. The poor man must be spinning
in his grave.
People project shit onto Einstein to the point that he’s become a kind of mythical figure. For
example, the idea that Einstein was a poor student is bogus. He excelled at math and science
from an early age, taught himself algebra and Euclidean geometry in a single summer at age
twelve, and read Immanuel Kant’s Critique of Pure Reason (a book that present-day graduate
students struggle to finish) at age thirteen. I mean, the guy got a PhD in experimental physics
earlier in life than some people get their first jobs, so clearly he was kind of into the school thing.
Albert Einstein didn’t initially have big aspirations; he just wanted to teach. But being a
young German immigrant in Switzerland, he couldn’t get a position at the local universities.
Eventually, with the help of a friend’s father, he got a job at a patent office, a position mindnumbingly dull enough for him to sit around all day and imagine wacky theories about physics—
theories that would soon flip the world on its head. In 1905 he published his theory of relativity,
which launched him to worldwide fame. He left the patent office. Presidents and heads of state
suddenly wanted to hang out with him. Everything was Gucci.
In his long life, Einstein would go on to revolutionize physics multiple times, escape the
Nazis, warn the United States of the oncoming necessity (and danger) of nuclear weapons, and

be the subject of a very famous photo in which he’s sticking out his tongue.
But today, we also know him for the many excellent internet quotes that he never actually
said.
Since the time of (real) Newton, physics had been based upon the idea that everything could be
measured in terms of time and space. For example, my trash can is here next to me now. It has a
particular position in space. If I pick it up and throw it across the room in a drunken rage, we
could theoretically measure its location in space across time, determining all sorts of useful stuff
like its velocity, trajectory, momentum, and how big a dent it will leave in the wall. These other
variables are determined by measuring the trash can’s movement across both time and space.
Time and space are what we call “universal constants.” They are immutable. They are the
metrics by which everything else is measured. If this sounds like common sense, it’s because it
is.
Then Einstein came along and said, “Fuck your common sense; you know nothing, Jon
Snow,” and changed the world. That’s because Einstein proved that time and space are not
universal constants. In fact, it turns out that our perceptions of time and space can change
depending on the context of our observations. For example, what I experience as ten seconds,
you could experience as five; and what I experience as a mile, you could theoretically experience
as a few feet.
To anyone who has spent a significant amount of time on LSD, this conclusion might kind of
make sense. But for the physics world at the time, it sounded like pure craziness.
Einstein demonstrated that space and time change depending on the observer—that is, they
are relative. It is the speed of light that is the universal constant, the thing by which everything
else must be measured. We are all moving, all the time, and the closer we get to the speed of
light, the more time “slows down” and the more space contracts.
For example, let’s say you have an identical twin. Being twins, obviously you are the same
age. The two of you decide to go on a little intergalactic adventure, and each of you gets into a
separate spaceship. Your spaceship travels at a pokey 50 kilometers per second, but your twin’s
travels at close to the speed of light—an insane 299,000 kilometers per second. You both agree
to travel around space for a while and find a bunch of cool stuff and then meet back up after
twenty earth years have passed.
When you get home, something shocking has happened. You have aged twenty years, but
your twin has hardly aged at all. Your twin has been “gone” for twenty earth years, yet on his
spaceship, he experienced only about one year.
Yeah, “What the fuck?” is what I said, too.
As Einstein once said, “Dude, that doesn’t even make sense.” Except it does (and Einstein
never said that).
The Einstein example is important because it shows how our assumption of what is constant
and stable in the universe can be wrong, and those incorrect assumptions can have massive
implications on how we experience the world. We assume that space and time are universal
constants because that explains how we perceive the world. But it turns out that they are not
universal constants; they are variables to some other, inscrutable, nonobvious constant. And that
changes everything.
I belabor this headache-inducing explanation of relativity because I believe a similar thing is
going on within our own psychology: what we believe is the universal constant of our experience
is, in fact, not constant at all. And, instead, much of what we assume to be true and real is
relative to our own perception.

Psychologists didn’t always study happiness. In fact, for most of the field’s history, psychology
focused not on the positive, but on what fucked people up, what caused mental illness and
emotional breakdowns, and how people should cope with their greatest pains.
It wasn’t until the 1980s that a few intrepid academics started asking themselves, “Wait a
second, my job is kind of a downer. What about what makes people happy? Let’s study that
instead!” And there was much celebration, because soon dozens of “happiness” books would
proliferate on bookshelves, selling in the millions to bored, angsty middle-class people suffering
existential crises.
One of the first things psychologists did when they started to study happiness was to organize
a simple survey.9 They took large groups of people and gave them pagers—remember, this was
the 1980s and ’90s—and whenever the pager went off, each person was to stop and write down
the answers to two questions:
1. On a scale of 1–10, how happy are you at this moment?
2. What has been going on in your life?
The researchers collected thousands of ratings from hundreds of people from all walks of
life, and what they discovered was both surprising and incredibly boring: pretty much everybody
wrote “7” all the time. At the grocery store buying milk? Seven. Attending my son’s baseball
game? Seven. Talking to my boss about making a big sale to a client? Seven.
Even when catastrophic stuff happened—Mom got cancer; I missed a mortgage payment on
the house; Junior lost an arm in a freak bowling accident—happiness levels would dip to the
two-to-five range for a short period, and then, after a while, would return to seven.10
This was true for extremely positive events as well. Getting a fat bonus at work, going on
dream vacations, marriages—after the event, people’s ratings would shoot up for a short period
of time and then, predictably, settle back in at around seven.
This fascinated researchers. Nobody is fully happy all the time, but similarly, nobody is fully
unhappy all the time, either. It seems that humans, regardless of our external circumstances, live
in a constant state of mild-but-not-fully-satisfying happiness. Put another way, things are pretty
much always fine, but they could also always be better.11
Life is apparently nothing but bobbing up and down and around our level-seven happiness.
And this constant “seven” that we’re always coming back to plays a little trick on us, a trick that
we fall for over and over again.
The trick is that our brain tells us, “You know, if I could just have a little bit more, I’d finally
get to ten and stay there.”
Most of us live much of our lives this way, constantly chasing our imagined ten.
You think, hey, to be happier, I’m going to need to get a new job; so you get a new job. And
then, a few months later, you feel you’d be happier if you had a new house; so you get a new
house. And then, a few months later, it’s an awesome beach vacation; so you go on an awesome
beach vacation. And while you’re on the awesome beach vacation, you’re like, you know what I
fucking need? A goddamn piña colada! Can’t a fucker get a piña colada around here?! So, you
stress about your piña colada, believing that just one piña colada will get you to your ten. But
then it’s a second piña colada, and then a third, and then . . . well, you know how this turns out:
you wake up with a hangover and are at a three.
It’s like Einstein once advised, “Never get wasted on cocktails with sugar-based mixers—if
you need to go on a bender, may I recommend some seltzer, or if you’re a particularly rich fuck,

perhaps a fine champagne?”
Each of us implicitly assumes that we are the universal constant of our own experience, that
we are unchanging, and our experiences come and go like the weather.12 Some days are good
and sunny; other days are cloudy and shitty. The skies change, but we remain the same.
But this is not true—in fact, this is backward. Pain is the universal constant of life. And
human perception and expectations warp themselves to fit a predetermined amount of pain. In
other words, no matter how sunny our skies get, our mind will always imagine just enough
clouds to be slightly disappointed.
This constancy of pain results in what is known as “the hedonic treadmill,” upon which you
run and run and run, chasing your imagined ten. But, no matter what, you always end up with a
seven. The pain is always there. What changes is your perception of it. And as soon as your life
“improves,” your expectations shift, and you’re back to being mildly dissatisfied again.
But pain works in the other direction, too. I remember when I got my big tattoo, the first few
minutes were excruciatingly painful. I couldn’t believe I’d signed up for eight hours of this shit.
But by the third hour, I’d actually dozed off while my tattoo artist worked.
Nothing had changed: same needle, same arm, same artist. But my perception had shifted:
the pain became normal, and I returned to my own internal seven.
This is another permutation of the Blue Dot Effect.13 This is Durkheim’s “perfect” society.
This is Einstein’s relativity with a psychological remix. It’s the concept creep of someone who
has never actually experienced physical violence losing their mind and redefining a few
uncomfortable sentences in a book as “violence.” It’s the exaggerated sense that one’s culture is
being invaded and destroyed because there are now movies about gay people.
The Blue Dot Effect is everywhere. It affects all perceptions and judgments. Everything
adapts and shapes itself to our slight dissatisfaction.
And that is the problem with the pursuit of happiness.
Pursuing happiness is a value of the modern world. Do you think Zeus gave a shit if people
were happy? Do you think the God of the Old Testament cared about making people feel good?
No, they were too busy planning to send swarms of locusts to eat people’s flesh.
In the old days, life was hard. Famines and plagues and floods were constant. The majority of
populations were enslaved or enlisted in endless wars, while the rest were slitting each other’s
throats in the night for this or that tyrant. Death was ubiquitous. Most people didn’t live past,
like, age thirty. And this was how things were for the majority of human history: shit and
shingles and starvation.
Suffering in the pre-science world was not only an accepted fact; it was often celebrated. The
philosophers of antiquity didn’t see happiness as a virtue. On the contrary, they saw humans’
capacity for self-denial as a virtue, because feeling good was just as dangerous as it was
desirable. And rightly so—all it took was one jackass getting carried away and the next thing you
knew, half the village had burned down. As Einstein famously didn’t say, “Don’t fuck around
with torches while drinking or that shit will ruin your day.”
It wasn’t until the age of science and technology that happiness became a “thing.” Once
humanity invented the means to improve life, the next logical question was “So what should we
improve?” Several philosophers at the time decided that the ultimate aim of humanity should be
to promote happiness—that is, to reduce pain.14
This sounded all nice and noble and everything on the surface. I mean, come on, who doesn’t
want to get rid of a little bit of pain? What sort of asshole would claim that that was a bad idea?
Well, I am that asshole, because it is a bad idea.

Because you can’t get rid of pain—pain is the universal constant of the human condition.
Therefore, the attempt to move away from pain, to protect oneself from all harm, can only
backfire. Trying to eliminate pain only increases your sensitivity to suffering, rather than
alleviating your suffering. It causes you to see dangerous ghosts in every nook, to see tyranny
and oppression in every authority, to see hate and deceit behind every embrace.
No matter how much progress is made, no matter how peaceful and comfortable and happy
our lives become, the Blue Dot Effect will snap us back to a perception of a certain amount of
pain and dissatisfaction. Most people who win millions in the lottery don’t end up happier in the
long run. On average, they end up feeling the same. People who become paralyzed in freak
accidents don’t become unhappier in the long run. On average, they also end up feeling the
same.15
This is because pain is the experience of life itself. Positive emotions are the temporary
removal of pain; negative emotions the temporary augmentation of it. To numb one’s pain is to
numb all feeling, all emotion. It is to quietly remove oneself from living.
Or, as Einstein once brilliantly put it:
Just as a stream flows smoothly as long as it encounters no obstruction, so the nature of man and animal is such that we
never really notice or become conscious of what is agreeable to our will; if we are to notice something, our will has to have
been thwarted, has to have experienced a shock of some kind. On the other hand, all that opposes, frustrates and resists our
will, that is to say all that is unpleasant and painful, impresses itself upon us instantly, directly and with great clarity. Just
as we are conscious not of the healthiness of our whole body but only the little place where the shoe pinches, so we think not
of the totality of our successful activities but of some insignificant trifle or other which continues to vex us.16

Okay, that wasn’t Einstein. It was Schopenhauer, who was also German and also had funnylooking hair. But the point is, not only is there no escaping the experience of pain, but pain is the
experience.
This is why hope is ultimately self-defeating and self-perpetuating: no matter what we
achieve, no matter what peace and prosperity we find, our mind will quickly adjust its
expectations to maintain a steady sense of adversity, thus forcing the formulation of a new hope,
a new religion, a new conflict to keep us going. We will see threatening faces where there are no
threatening faces. We will see unethical job proposals where there are no unethical job proposals.
And no matter how sunny our day is, we’ll always find that one cloud in the sky.
Therefore, the pursuit of happiness is not only self-defeating but also impossible. It’s like
trying to catch a carrot hanging by a string tied to a stick attached to your back. The more you
move forward, the more you have to move forward. When you make the carrot your end goal,
you inevitably turn yourself into the means to get there. And by pursuing happiness, you
paradoxically make it less attainable.
The pursuit of happiness is a toxic value that has long defined our culture. It is self-defeating
and misleading. Living well does not mean avoiding suffering; it means suffering for the right
reasons. Because if we’re going to be forced to suffer by simply existing, we might as well learn
how to suffer well.

The Only Choice in Life
In 1954, after nearly seventy-five years of occupation and twenty years of war, the Vietnamese
finally kicked the French out of their country. This should have been an unequivocally good
thing. The problem was that that pesky Cold War was going on—a global religious war between
the capitalist, liberal Western powers and the Communist Eastern Bloc. And when it turned out

that Ho Chi Minh, the guy who gave the French the ass-kicking, was a Communist, well,
everyone kind of freaked out and thought this could spark World War III.
Terrified of a major war, a bunch of heads of state sat down at a fancy table somewhere in
Switzerland and agreed to skip the nuclear annihilation part and go straight to slicing Vietnam in
half. Why a country that didn’t do anything to anybody deserved to be cut in half, don’t ask
me.17 But apparently everyone decided that North Vietnam would be Communist, South
Vietnam would be capitalist, and that’s that. Everyone would live happily ever after.
(Okay, maybe not.)
Here was the problem. The Western powers put a man named Ngo Dinh Diem in charge of
South Vietnam until proper elections could be held. At first, everyone seemed to like this Diem
guy. A devout Catholic, he was French educated, had spent a number of years in Italy, and was
multilingual. Upon meeting him, U.S. vice president Lyndon Johnson called Diem “the Winston
Churchill of Asia.” He was practically one of us!
Diem was also charismatic and ambitious. He impressed himself not only on the Western
leaders but also on the former Vietnamese emperor. Diem declared confidently that he would be
the one to finally bring democracy to Southeast Asia. And everyone believed him.
Well, that’s not what happened. Within a year of taking power, Diem outlawed every
political party in South Vietnam other than his own. And when it came time for the country to
have its referendum, he put his own brother in charge of managing all electoral sites. And you’ll
never believe this, but Diem won the election! With a mind-blowing 98.2 percent of the vote!
It turned out this Diem guy was a total piece of shit. Ho Chi Minh, the leader of North
Vietnam, was a total piece of shit, too, of course. And if I learned anything in college, it’s that
the first rule of geopolitical theory is that when you have two total pieces of shit living next door
to each other, millions of people die.18
And just like that, Vietnam spiraled back into civil war.
I’d love to tell you something surprising about Diem, but he kind of became your run-of-themill tyrant. He filled his administration with family members and corrupt cronies. He and his
family lived in opulent luxury while famine swept across the countryside, causing hundreds of
thousands to either defect or starve to death. He was so smug and incompetent that the United
States would have to gradually start intervening to prevent South Vietnam from imploding, thus
starting what Americans now know as the Vietnam War.
But despite how fucking awful Diem was, the Western powers stood by their man. After all,
he was supposed to be one of them, a disciple of the liberal capitalist religion, standing strong
against the Communist onslaught. It would take years and countless deaths for them to realize
that Diem was not interested in their religion as much as his own.
As with many tyrants, one of Diem’s favorite pastimes was oppressing and killing people he
disagreed with. In this case, being a devout Catholic, Diem hated Buddhists. The problem was
that Vietnam was roughly 80 percent Buddhist at the time, so that didn’t exactly go over well
with the population. Diem banned Buddhist-related banners and flags. He banned Buddhist
holidays. He refused to provide governmental services to Buddhist communities. He raided and
destroyed pagodas across the country, forcing hundreds of Buddhist monks into destitution.
The Buddhist monks organized and staged peaceful protests, but these were shut down of
course. Then there were even bigger protests, so Diem made protesting illegal. When his police
forces ordered the Buddhists to disperse, and the Buddhists refused, the police began to shoot
protesters. At one peaceful march, they even hurled live grenades at groups of unarmed monks.
Western reporters knew this religious suppression was going on, but they were concerned

primarily with the war with North Vietnam, so it wasn’t really a priority. Few knew the extent of
the problem, and fewer even bothered to cover the confrontations.
Then, on June 10, 1963, reporters received a cryptic message claiming that “something
important” would occur the next day in Saigon, at a busy intersection just a few blocks from the
presidential palace. The correspondents didn’t think much of this, and most decided not to go.
The next day, among a few journalists, only two photographers bothered to show up. One of
them forgot his camera.
The other would win a Pulitzer Prize.
That day, a small turquoise car festooned with banners demanding religious freedom led a
procession of a few hundred monks and nuns. The monks chanted. People stopped and watched
the procession and then returned to their business. It was a busy street on a busy day. And by this
point, Buddhist protests were nothing new.
The procession reached the intersection in front of the Cambodian embassy and stopped,
blocking all cross traffic. The group of monks fanned out into a semi-circle around the turquoise
car, silently staring and waiting.
Three monks got out of the car. One placed a cushion on the street, at the center of the
intersection. The second monk, an older man named Thich Quang Duc, walked to the cushion,
sat down in the lotus position, closed his eyes, and began to meditate.
The third monk from the car opened the trunk and took out a five-gallon canister of gasoline,
carried it over to where Quang Duc was sitting, and dumped the gasoline over his head, covering
the old man in fuel. People covered their mouths. Some covered their faces as their eyes began to
water at the fumes. An eerie silence fell over the busy city intersection. Passersby stopped
walking. Police forgot what they were doing. There was a thickness in the air. Something
important was about to happen. Everyone waited.
With gasoline-soaked robes and an expressionless face, Quang Duc recited a short prayer,
reached out, slowly picked up a match, and without breaking his lotus position or opening his
eyes, struck it on the asphalt and set himself on fire.
Instantly, a wall of flames rose around him. His body became engulfed. His robe
disintegrated. His skin turned black. A repulsive odor filled the air, a mixture of burnt flesh and
fuel and smoke. Wails and screams erupted throughout the crowd. Many fell to their knees, or
lost their balance entirely. Most were just stunned, shocked and immobilized by what was
occurring.

(Copyright AP Photo/Malcolm Browne. Used with permission.)

Yet, as he burned, Quang Duc remained perfectly still.
David Halberstam, a correspondent for the New York Times, later described the scene: “I was
too shocked to cry, too confused to take notes or ask questions, too bewildered to even think. . . .
As he burned he never moved a muscle, never uttered a sound, his outward composure in sharp
contrast to the wailing people around him.”19
News of Quang Duc’s self-immolation quickly spread, and angered millions all across the
planet. That evening, Diem gave a radio address to the nation during which he was audibly
shaken by the incident. He promised to reopen negotiations with the Buddhist leadership in the
country and to find a peaceful resolution.
But it was too late. Diem would never recover. It’s impossible to say exactly what changed or
how, but the air was somehow different, the streets more alive. With the strike of a match and the
click of a camera shutter, Diem’s invisible grip on the country had been weakened, and everyone
could sense it, including Diem.
Soon, thousands of people poured into the streets in open revolt against his administration.
His military commanders began to disobey him. His advisers defied him. Eventually, even the
United States could no longer justify supporting him. President Kennedy soon gave his nod of
approval to a plan by Diem’s top generals to overthrow him.
The image of the burning monk had broken the levee, and a flood ensued.
A few months later, Diem and his family were assassinated.
Photos of Quang Duc’s death went viral before “going viral” was a thing. The image became a
kind of human Rorschach test, in which everyone saw their own values and struggles reflected
back at them. Communists in Russia and China published the photo to rally their supporters
against the capitalist imperialists of the West. Postcards were sold across Europe railing against
the atrocities being committed in the East. Antiwar protesters in the United States printed the

photo to protest American involvement in the war. Conservatives used the photo as evidence of
the need for U.S. intervention. Even President Kennedy had to admit that “no news picture in
history has generated so much emotion around the world.”20
The photo of Quang Duc’s self-immolation triggered something primal and universal in
people. It goes beyond politics or religion. It taps into a far more fundamental component of our
lived experience: the ability to endure extraordinary amounts of pain.21 I can’t even sit up
straight at dinner for more than a few minutes. Meanwhile, this guy was fucking burning alive
and he didn’t even move. He didn’t flinch. He didn’t scream. He didn’t smile or wince or
grimace or even open his eyes to take one last look at the world he had chosen to leave behind.
There was a purity to his act, not to mention an absolutely stunning display of resolve. It is
the ultimate example of mind over matter, of will over instinct.22
And despite the horror of it all, it somehow remains . . . inspiring.
In 2011, Nassim Taleb wrote about a concept he dubbed “antifragility.” Taleb argued that just as
some systems become weaker under stress from external forces, other systems gain strength
under stress from external forces.23
A vase is fragile: it shatters easily. The classic banking system is fragile, as unexpected shifts
in politics or the economy can cause it to break down. Maybe your relationship with your
mother-in-law is fragile, as any and every thing you say will cause her to explode in a fiery
plume of insults and drama. Fragile systems are like beautiful little flowers or a teenager’s
feelings: they must be protected at all times.
Then you have robust systems. Robust systems resist change well. Whereas a vase is fragile
and breaks when you sneeze on it, an oil drum—now that’s fucking robust. You can throw that
shit around for weeks, and nothing will happen to it. Still the same old oil drum.
As a society, we spend most of our time and money taking fragile systems and trying to make
them more robust. You hire a good lawyer to make your business more robust. The government
passes regulations to make the financial system more robust. We institute rules and laws like
traffic lights and property rights to make our society more robust.
But, Taleb says, there is a third type of system, and that is the “antifragile” system. Whereas
a fragile system breaks down and a robust system resists change, the antifragile system gains
from stressors and external pressures.
Start-ups are antifragile businesses: they look for ways to fail quickly and gain from those
failures. Drug dealers are also anti-fragile: the crazier shit gets, the more fucked up people want
to get. A healthy love relationship is antifragile: misfortune and pain make the relationship
stronger rather than weaker.24 Veterans often talk about how the chaos of combat builds and
reinforces life-changing bonds between soldiers, rather than disintegrating those bonds.
The human body can go either way, depending on how you use it. If you get off your ass and
actively seek out pain, the body is antifragile, meaning it gets stronger the more stress and strain
you put on it. The breaking down of your body through exercise and physical labor builds
muscle and bone density, improves circulation, and gives you a really nice butt. But if you avoid
stress and pain (i.e., if you sit on your damn couch all day watching Netflix), your muscles will
atrophy, your bones will become brittle, and you will degenerate into weakness.
The human mind operates on the same principle. It can be fragile or antifragile depending on
how you use it. When struck by chaos and disorder, our minds set to work making sense of it all,
deducing principles and constructing mental models, predicting future events and evaluating the
past. This is called “learning,” and it makes us better; it allows us to gain from failure and

disorder.
But when we avoid pain, when we avoid stress and chaos and tragedy and disorder, we
become fragile. Our tolerance for day-to-day setbacks diminishes, and our life must shrink
accordingly for us to engage only in the little bit of the world we can handle at one time.
Because pain is the universal constant. No matter how “good” or “bad” your life gets, the
pain will be there. And it will eventually feel manageable. The question then, the only question,
is: Will you engage it? Will you engage your pain or avoid your pain? Will you choose fragility
or antifragility?
Everything you do, everything you are, everything you care about is a reflection of this
choice: your relationships, your health, your results at work, your emotional stability, your
integrity, your engagement with your community, the breadth of your life experiences, the depth
of your self-confidence and courage, your ability to respect and trust and forgive and appreciate
and listen and learn and have compassion.
If any of these things is fragile in your life, it is because you have chosen to avoid the pain.
You have chosen childish values of chasing simple pleasures, desire, and self-satisfaction.
Our tolerance for pain, as a culture, is diminishing rapidly. And not only is this diminishment
failing to bring us more happiness, but it’s generating greater amounts of emotional fragility,
which is why everything appears to be so fucked.
Which brings me back to Thich Quang Duc setting himself on fire and then just sitting there like
a boss. Most modern Westerners know of meditation as a relaxation technique. You put on some
yoga pants and sit in a warm, cushy room for ten minutes and close your eyes and listen to some
soothing voice on your phone telling you that you’re okay, everything’s okay, everything’s going
to be fucking great, just follow your heart, blah, blah, blah.25
But actual Buddhist meditation is far more intense than simply de-stressing oneself with
fancy apps. Rigorous meditation involves sitting quietly and mercilessly observing yourself.
Every thought, every judgment, every inclination, every minute fidget and flake of emotion and
trace of assumption that passes before your mind’s eye is ideally captured, acknowledged, and
then released back into the void. And worst of all, there’s no end to it. People always lament that
they’re “not good” at meditation. There is no getting good. That’s the whole point. You are
supposed to suck at it. Just accept the suckage. Embrace the suckage. Love the suckage.
When one meditates for long periods of time, all sorts of wacky shit comes up: strange
fantasies and decades-old regrets and odd sexual urges and unbearable boredom and often
crushing feelings of isolation and loneliness. And these things, too, must simply be observed,
acknowledged, and then let go. They, too, shall pass.
Meditation is, at its core, a practice of antifragility: training your mind to observe and sustain
the never-ending ebb and flow of pain and not to let the “self” get sucked away by its riptide.
This is why everyone is so bad at something seemingly so simple. After all, you just sit on a
pillow and close your eyes. How hard can it be? Why is it so difficult to summon the courage to
sit down and do it and then stay there? It should be easy, yet everyone seems to be terrible at
getting themselves to do it.26
Most people avoid meditation the same way a kid avoids doing homework. It’s because they
know what meditation really is: it’s confronting your pain, it’s observing the interiors of your
mind and heart, in all their horror and glory.
I usually tap out after meditating for around an hour, and the most I ever did was a two-day
silent retreat. By the end of that, my mind was practically screaming for me to let it go outside

and play. That length of sustained contemplation is a strange experience: a mix of agonizing
boredom dotted with the horrifying realization that any control you thought you had over your
own mind was merely a useful illusion. Throw in a dash of uncomfortable emotions and
memories (maybe a childhood trauma or two), and shit can get pretty raw.
Now imagine doing that all day, every day, for sixty years. Imagine the steely focus and
intense resolve of your inner flashlight. Imagine your pain threshold. Imagine your antifragility.
What’s so remarkable about Thich Quang Duc is not that he chose to set himself on fire in
political protest (although that is pretty damn remarkable). What’s remarkable is the manner in
which he did it: Motionless. Equanimous. At peace.
The Buddha said that suffering is like being shot by two arrows. The first arrow is the
physical pain—it’s the metal piercing the skin, the force colliding into the body. The second
arrow is the mental pain, the meaning and emotion we attach to the being struck, the narratives
that we spin in our minds about whether we deserved or didn’t deserve what happened. In many
cases, our mental pain is far worse than any physical pain. In most cases, it lasts far longer.
Through the practice of meditation, the Buddha said that if we could train ourselves to be
struck only by the first arrow, we could essentially render ourselves invincible to any mental or
emotional pain.
That, with enough practiced focus, with enough antifragility, the passing sensation of an
insult or an object piercing our skin, or gallons of gasoline aflame over our body, would possess
the same fleeting feeling as a fly buzzing across our face.
That while pain is inevitable, suffering is always a choice.
That there is always a separation between what we experience and how we interpret that
experience.
That there’s always a gap between what our Feeling Brain feels and what our Thinking Brain
thinks. And in that gap, you can find the power to bear anything.
Children have a low tolerance for pain because the child’s entire ethos revolves around the
avoidance of pain. For the child, a failure to avoid pain is a failure to find meaning or purpose.
Therefore, even modest amounts of pain will cause the child to fall into fits of nihilism.
The adolescent has a higher pain threshold because the adolescent understands that pain is
often a necessary trade-off to achieve his goals. The notion of enduring pain for some sort of
future benefit thus allows the adolescent to incorporate some hardships and setbacks into his
vision of hope: I will suffer through school so I can have a good career; I will deal with my
obnoxious aunt so I can enjoy my holiday with the family; I will wake up at the ass-crack of
dawn to work out because it will make me look sexy.
The problem arises when the adolescent feels that he got a bad bargain, when the pain
exceeds his expectations and the rewards don’t live up to the hype. This will cause the
adolescent, like the child, to fall into a crisis of hope: I sacrificed so much and got so little back!
What was the point? It will thrust the adolescent into the depths of nihilism and an unkindly visit
with the Uncomfortable Truth.
The adult has an incredibly high threshold for pain because the adult understands that life, in
order to be meaningful, requires pain, that nothing can or necessarily should be controlled or
bargained for, that you can simply do the best you can do, regardless of the consequences.
Psychological growth is an escape from nihilism, a process of building more and more
sophisticated and abstract value hierarchies in order to stomach whatever life throws our way.
Childish values are fragile. The moment the ice cream is gone, an existential crisis sets in—
followed by a screaming shit fit. Adolescent values are more robust because they include the

necessity of pain, but they are still susceptible to unexpected and/or tragic events. Adolescent
values inevitably break down in extreme circumstances or over a long enough period of time.
Truly adult values are antifragile: they benefit from the unexpected. The more fucked up a
relationship gets, the more useful honesty becomes. The more terrifying the world is, the more
important it is to summon up the courage to face it. The more confusing life becomes, the more
valuable it is to adopt humility.
These are the virtues of a post-hope existence, the values of true adulthood. They are the
North Star of our minds and our hearts. No matter the turbulence or chaos taking place on earth,
they stand above it all, untouched, always shining, always guiding us through the darkness.

Pain Is Value
Many scientists and techno enthusiasts believe that one day we will develop the capabilities to
“cure” death. Our genetics will be modified and optimized. We will develop nanobots that
monitor and eradicate anything that could medically threaten us. Biotechnology will enable us to
replace and restore our bodies in perpetuity, thus allowing us to live forever.
It sounds like science fiction, but some even believe that we could achieve this technology in
our lifetime.27
The idea of removing the possibility of death, of overcoming our biological fragility, of
alleviating all pain, is incredibly exciting on the surface. But I think it could also be a
psychological disaster in the making.
For one, if you remove death, you remove any scarcity from life. And if you remove scarcity,
you remove the ability to determine value. Everything will seem equally good or bad, equally
worthy or unworthy of your time and attention, because . . . well, you would have infinite time
and attention. You could spend a hundred years watching the same TV show, and it wouldn’t
matter. You could let your relationships deteriorate and fall away because, after all, those people
are going to be around forever—so why bother? You could justify every indulgence, every
diversion, with a simple “Well, it’s not like it’s going to kill me,” and get on with it.
Death is psychologically necessary because it creates stakes in life. There is something to
lose. You don’t know what something is worth until you experience the potential to lose it. You
don’t know what you’re willing to struggle for, what you’re willing to give up or sacrifice.
Pain is the currency of our values. Without the pain of loss (or potential loss), it becomes
impossible to determine the value of anything at all.
Pain is at the heart of all emotion. Negative emotions are caused by experiencing pain.
Positive emotions are caused by alleviating pain. When we avoid pain and make ourselves more
fragile, the result is our emotional reactions will be wildly disproportional to the importance of
the event. We will flip our shit when our burger comes with too many leaves of lettuce. We will
brim with self-importance after watching a bullshit YouTube video telling us how righteous we
are. Life will become an ineffable roller coaster, sweeping our hearts up and down as we scroll
up and down on our touchscreen.
The more antifragile we become, the more graceful our emotional responses are, the more
control we exercise over ourselves, and the more principled our values. Antifragility is therefore
synonymous with growth and maturity. Life is one never-ending stream of pain, and to grow is
not to find a way to avoid that stream but, rather, to dive into it and successfully navigate its
depths.
The pursuit of happiness is, then, an avoidance of growth, an avoidance of maturity, an

avoidance of virtue. It is treating ourselves and our minds as a means to some emotionally giddy
end. It is sacrificing our consciousness for feeling good. It’s giving up our dignity for more
comfort.
The ancient philosophers knew this. Plato and Aristotle and the Stoics spoke of a life not of
happiness, but of character, developing the ability to sustain pain and make the appropriate
sacrifices—as that’s really what life was in their time: one long, drawn-out sacrifice. The ancient
virtues of bravery, honesty, and humility are all different forms of practicing antifragility: they
are principles that gain from chaos and adversity.
It wasn’t until the Enlightenment, the age of science and technology and the promise of
never-ending economic growth, that thinkers and philosophers conceived of the idea summed up
by Thomas Jefferson as “the pursuit of happiness.” As the Enlightenment thinkers saw science
and wealth alleviate poverty, starvation, and disease from the population, they mistook this
improvement of pain to be the elimination of pain. Many public intellectuals and pundits
continue to make this mistake today: they believe that growth has liberated us from suffering,
rather than merely transmuting that suffering from a physical form to a psychological form.28
What the Enlightenment did get right is the idea that, on average, some pain is better than
others. All else being equal, it is better to die at ninety than at twenty. It’s better to be healthy
than it is to be sick. It’s better to be free to pursue your own goals than to be forced into servitude
by others. In fact, you could define “wealth” in terms of how desirable your pain is.29
But we seem to have forgotten what the ancients knew: that no matter how much wealth is
generated in the world, the quality of our lives is determined by the quality of our character, and
the quality of our character is determined by our relationship to our pain.
The pursuit of happiness plunges us head-first toward nihilism and frivolity. It leads us
toward childishness, an incessant and intolerant desire for something more, a hole that can never
be filled, a thirst that can never be quenched. It is at the root of corruption and addiction, of selfpity and self-destruction.
When we pursue pain, we are able to choose what pain we bring into our lives. And this
choice makes the pain meaningful—and therefore, it is what makes life feel meaningful.
Because pain is the universal constant of life, the opportunities to grow from that pain are
constant in life. All that is required is that we don’t numb it, that we don’t look away. All that is
required is that we engage it and find the value and meaning in it.
Pain is the source of all value. To numb ourselves to our pain is to numb ourselves to
anything that matters in the world.30 Pain opens up the moral gaps that eventually become our
most deeply held values and beliefs.
When we deny ourselves the ability to feel pain for a purpose, we deny ourselves the ability
to feel any purpose in our life at all.

Chapter 8

The Feelings Economy
In the 1920s, women didn’t smoke—or, if they did, they were severely judged for it. It was
taboo. Like graduating from college or getting elected to Congress, smoking, people believed
back then, should be left to the men. “Honey, you might hurt yourself. Or worse, you might burn
your beautiful hair.”
This posed a problem for the tobacco industry. Here you had 50 percent of the population not
smoking their cigarettes for no other reason than it was unfashionable or seen as impolite. This
wouldn’t do. As George Washington Hill, president of the American Tobacco Company, said at
the time, “It’s a gold mine right in our front yard.” The industry tried multiple times to market
cigarettes to women, but nothing ever seemed to work. The cultural prejudice against it was
simply too ingrained, too deep.
Then, in 1928, the American Tobacco Company hired Edward Bernays, a young hotshot
marketer with wild ideas and even wilder marketing campaigns.1 Bernays’s marketing tactics at
the time were unlike anybody else’s in the advertising industry.
Back in the early nineteenth century, marketing was seen simply as a means of
communicating the tangible, real benefits of a product in the simplest and most concise form
possible. It was believed at the time that people bought products based on facts and information.
If someone wanted to buy cheese, then you had to communicate to them the facts of why your
cheese was superior (“Freshest French goat milk, cured twelve days, shipped refrigerated!”).
People were seen as rational actors making rational purchasing decisions for themselves. It was
the Classic Assumption: the Thinking Brain was in charge.
But Bernays was unconventional. He didn’t believe that people made rational decisions most
of the time. He believed the opposite. He believed that people were emotional and impulsive and
just hid it really well. He believed the Feeling Brain was in charge and nobody had quite realized
it.
Whereas the tobacco industry had been focused on persuading individual women to buy and
smoke cigarettes through logical arguments, Bernays saw it as an emotional and cultural issue. If
he wanted women to smoke, then he had to appeal not to their thoughts but to their values. He
needed to appeal to women’s identities.
To accomplish this, Bernays hired a group of women and got them into the Easter Sunday
Parade in New York City. Today, big holiday parades are cheesy things you let drone on over the
television while you fall asleep on the couch. But back in those days, parades were big social
events, kind of like the Super Bowl or something.
As Bernays planned it, at the appropriate moment, these women would all stop and light up
cigarettes at the same time. He hired photographers to take flattering photos of the smoking
women, which he then passed out to all the major national newspapers. He told the reporters that
these ladies were not just lighting cigarettes, they were lighting “torches of freedom,”
demonstrating their ability to assert their independence and be their own women.

It was all #FakeNews, of course, but Bernays staged it as a political protest. He knew this
would trigger the appropriate emotions in women across the country. Feminists had won women
the right to vote only nine years earlier. Women were now working outside the home and
becoming more integral to the country’s economic life. They were asserting themselves by
cutting their hair short and wearing racier clothing. This generation of women saw themselves as
the first generation that could behave independently of a man. And many of them felt very
strongly about this. If Bernays could just hitch his “smoking equals freedom” message onto the
women’s liberation movement . . . well, tobacco sales would double and he’d be a rich man.
It worked. Women started smoking, and ever since, we’ve had equal-opportunity lung
cancer.
Bernays went on to pull off these kinds of cultural coups regularly throughout the 1920s,
’30s, and ’40s. He completely revolutionized the marketing industry and invented the field of
public relations in the process. Paying sexy celebrities to use your product? That was Bernays’s
idea. Creating fake news articles that are actually subtle advertisements for a company? All him.
Staging controversial public events as a means to draw attention and notoriety for a client?
Bernays. Pretty much every form of marketing and publicity we’re subjected to today began with
Bernays.
But here’s something else interesting about Bernays: he was Sigmund Freud’s nephew.
Freud was infamous because he was the first modern thinker to argue that it was the Feeling
Brain that was really driving the Consciousness Car. Freud believed that people’s insecurities
and shame drove them to make bad decisions, to overindulge or to compensate for what they felt
they lacked. Freud was the one who realized that we have cohesive identities, stories in our
minds that we tell about ourselves, and that we are emotionally attached to those stories and will
fight to maintain them.2 Freud argued that, at the end of the day, we are animals: impulsive and
selfish and emotional.
Freud spent most of his life broke. He was the quintessential European intellectual: isolated,
erudite, deeply philosophical. But Bernays was an American. He was practical. He was driven.
Fuck philosophy! He wanted to be rich. And boy, did Freud’s ideas—translated through the lens
of marketing—deliver in a big way.3 Through Freud, Bernays understood something nobody else
in business had understood before him: that if you can tap into people’s insecurities, they will
buy just about any damn thing you tell them to.
Trucks are marketed to men as ways to assert strength and reliability. Makeup is marketed to
women as a way to be more loved and garner more attention. Beer is marketed as a way to have
fun and be the center of attention at a party.
This is all Marketing 101, of course. And today it’s celebrated as business as usual. One of
the first things you learn when you study marketing is how to find customers’ “pain points” . . .
and then subtly make them feel worse. The idea is that you needle at people’s shame and
insecurity and then turn around and tell them your product will resolve that shame and rid them
of that insecurity. Put another way, marketing specifically identifies or accentuates the
customer’s moral gaps and then offers a way to fill them.
On the one hand, this has helped produce all the economic diversity and wealth we
experience today. On the other hand, when marketing messages designed to induce feelings of
inadequacy are scaled up to thousands of advertising messages hitting every single person, every
single day, there have to be psychological repercussions to that. And they can’t be good.

Feelings Make the World Go ’Round

The world runs on one thing: feelings.
This is because people spend money on things that make them feel good. And where the
money flows, power flows. So, the more you’re able to influence the emotions of people in the
world, the more money and power you’ll accumulate.
Money is itself a form of exchange used to equalize moral gaps between people. Money is its
own special, universal mini-religion that we all bought into because it makes our lives a little bit
easier. It allows us to convert our values into something universal when we’re dealing with one
another. You love seashells and oysters. I love fertilizing soil with the blood of my sworn
enemies. You fight in my army, and when we get home, I’ll make you rich with seashells and
oysters. Deal?
That’s how human economies emerged.4 No, really, they started because a bunch of angry
kings and emperors wanted to slaughter their sworn enemies, but they needed to give their
armies something in return, so they minted money as a form of debt (or moral gap) for the
soldiers to “spend” (equalize) when (or if) they got back home.
Not much has changed, of course. The world ran on feelings then; it runs on feelings now.
All that’s changed is the gizmos we use to shit on each other. Technological progress is just one
manifestation of the Feelings Economy. For instance, nobody ever tried to invent a talking
waffle. Why? Because that’d be fucking creepy and weird, not to mention probably not very
nutritious. Instead, technologies are researched and invented to—yep, you guessed it!—make
people feel better (or prevent them from feeling worse). The ballpoint pen, a more comfortable
seat heater, a better gasket for your house’s plumbing—fortunes are made and lost around things
that help people improve upon or avoid pain. These things make people feel good. People get
excited. They spend money. Then it’s boom times, baby.
There are two ways to create value in the marketplace:
1. Innovations (upgrade pain). The first way to create value is to replace one pain with a much more tolerable/desirable
pain. The most drastic and obvious examples of this are medical and pharmaceutical innovations. Polio vaccines replaced a
lifetime of debilitating pain and immobility with a few seconds of a needle prick. Heart surgeries replaced . . . well, death
with having to recover from surgery for a week or two.
2. Diversions (avoid pain). The second way to create value in a marketplace is to help people numb their pain. Whereas
upgrading people’s pain gives them better pain, numbing pain just delays that pain, and often even makes it worse.
Diversions are a weekend beach trip, a night out with friends, a movie with someone special, or snorting cocaine out of the
crack of a hooker’s ass. There’s nothing necessarily wrong with diversions; we all need them from time to time. The
problem is when they begin to dominate our lives and wrest control away from our will. Many diversions trip certain circuits
in our brain, making them addictive. The more you numb pain, the worse that pain becomes, thus impelling you to numb it
further. At a certain point, the icky ball of pain grows to such great proportions that your avoidance of that pain becomes
compulsive. You lose control of yourself—your Feeling Brain has locked your Thinking Brain in the trunk and isn’t letting
it out until it gets its next hit of whatever. And the downward spiral ensues.

When the scientific revolution first got going, most economic progress was due to
innovation. Back then, the vast majority of people lived in poverty: Everyone was sick, hungry,
cold, and tired most of the time. Few could read. Most had bad teeth. It was no fun at all. Over
the next few hundred years, with the invention of machines and cities and the division of labor
and modern medicine and hygiene and representative government, a lot of poverty and hardship
was alleviated. Vaccines and medicines have saved billions of lives. Machines have reduced
backbreaking workloads and starvation around the world. The technological innovations that
upgraded human suffering are undoubtedly a good thing.
But what happens when a large number of people are relatively healthy and wealthy? At that
point, most economic progress switches from innovation to diversion, from upgrading pain to
avoiding pain. One of the reasons for this is that true innovation is risky, difficult, and often

unrewarding. Many of the most important innovations in history left their inventors broke and
destitute.5 If someone is going to start a company and take a risk, going the diversion route is a
safer bet. As a result, we’ve built a culture in which most technological “innovation” is merely
figuring out how to scale diversions in new, more efficient (and more intrusive) ways. As the
venture capitalist Peter Thiel once said, “We wanted flying cars, instead we got Twitter.”
Once an economy switches over primarily to diversions, the culture begins to shift. As a poor
country develops and gains access to medicine, phones, and other innovative technologies,
measurements of well-being track upward at a steady clip, as everyone’s pain is being upgraded
to better pain. But once the country hits First World level, that well-being flattens or, in some
cases, drops off.6 Meanwhile, mental illness, depression, and anxiety can proliferate.7
This happens because opening up a society and giving it modern innovations makes the
people more robust and antifragile. They can survive more hardship, work more efficiently,
communicate and function better within their communities.
But once those innovations are integrated and everyone has a cell phone and a McDonald’s
Happy Meal, the great modern diversions enter the marketplace. And as soon as the diversions
show up, a psychological fragility is introduced, and everything begins to seem fucked.8
The commercial age commenced in the early twentieth century with Bernays’s discovery that
you could market to people’s unconscious feelings and desires.9 Bernays wasn’t concerned with
penicillin or heart surgery. He was hawking cigarettes and tabloid magazines and beauty
products—shit people didn’t need. And until then, nobody had figured out how to get people to
spend copious amounts of money on stuff that wasn’t necessary for their survival.
The invention of marketing brought a modern-day gold rush to satiate people’s pursuit of
happiness. Pop culture emerged, and celebrities and athletes got stupid rich. For the first time,
luxury items started to be mass-produced and advertised to the middle classes. There was
explosive growth in the technologies of convenience: microwavable dinners, fast food, La-ZBoys, no-stick pans, and so on. Life became so easy and fast and efficient and effortless that
within the short span of a hundred years, people were able to pick up a telephone and accomplish
in two minutes what used to take two months.
Life in the commercial age, although more complex than before, was still relatively simple
compared to today. A large, bustling middle class existed within a homogenous culture. We
watched the same TV channels, listened to the same music, ate the same food, relaxed on the
same types of sofas, and read the same newspapers and magazines. There was continuity and
cohesion to this era, which brought a sense of security with it. We were all, for a time, both free
and yet part of the same religion. And that was comforting. Despite the constant threat of nuclear
annihilation, at least in the West, we tend to idealize this period. I believe that it’s for this sense
of social cohesion that many people today are so nostalgic.
Then, the internet happened.
The internet is a bona fide innovation. All else being equal, it fundamentally makes our lives
better. Much better.
The problem is . . . well, the problem is us.
The internet’s intentions were good: inventors and technologists in Silicon Valley and
elsewhere had high hopes for a digital planet. They worked for decades toward a vision of
seamlessly networking the world’s people and information. They believed that the internet would
liberate people, removing gatekeepers and hierarchies and giving everyone equal access to the
same information and the same opportunities to express themselves. They believed that if

everyone were given a voice and a simple, effective means of sharing that voice, the world
would be a better, freer place.
A near-utopian level of optimism developed throughout the 1990s and 2000s. Technologists
envisioned a highly educated global population that would tap into the infinite wisdom available
at its fingertips. They saw the opportunity to engender greater empathy and understanding across
nations, ethnicities, and lifestyles. They dreamed of a unified and connected global movement
with a single shared interest in peace and prosperity.
But they forgot.
They were so caught up in their religious dreams and personal hopes that they forgot.
They forgot that the world doesn’t run on information.
People don’t make decisions based on truth or facts. They don’t spend their money based on
data. They don’t connect with each other because of some higher philosophical truth.
The world runs on feelings.
And when you give the average person an infinite reservoir of human wisdom, they will not
google for the information that contradicts their deepest held beliefs. They will not google for
what is true yet unpleasant.
Instead, most of us will google for what is pleasant but untrue.
Having an errant racist thought? Well, there’s a whole forum of racists two clicks away, with
a lot of convincing-sounding arguments as to why you shouldn’t be ashamed to have such
leanings. The wife leaves you and you start thinking women are inherently selfish and evil?
Doesn’t take much of a Google search to find justifications for those misogynistic feelings.10
Think Muslims are going to stalk from school to school, murdering your children? I’m sure
there’s a conspiracy theory somewhere out there that’s already “proving” that.
Instead of stemming the free expression of our worst feelings and darkest inclinations, the
start-ups and corporations dove right in to cash in on it. Thus, the greatest innovation of our
lifetime has slowly transformed into our greatest diversion.
The internet, in the end, was not designed to give us what we need. Instead, it gives people
what they want. And if you’ve learned anything about human psychology in this book, you
already know that this is much more dangerous than it sounds.

#FakeFreedom
It must be an odd time to be a super-successful businessperson. On the one hand, business is
better than ever. There’s more wealth in the world than ever before, profits are breaking all-time
highs, productivity and growth are doing great. Yet, meanwhile, income inequality is
skyrocketing, political polarization is ruining everyone’s family gatherings, and there seems to
be a plague of corruption spreading across the world.
So, while there’s exuberance in the business world, there’s also a weird sort of defensiveness
that sometimes comes out of nowhere. And this defensiveness, I’ve noticed, always takes the
same form, no matter whom it comes from. It says: “We’re just giving people what they want!”
Whether it’s oil companies or creepy advertisers or Facebook stealing your damn data, every
corporation that steps in some shit scrapes off their boot by frantically reminding everyone how
they’re just trying to give people what they want—faster download speeds, more comfortable
air-conditioning, better gas mileage, a cheaper nose hair trimmer—and how wrong can that be?
And it is true. Technology gives people what they want faster and more efficiently than ever
before. And while we all love to dogpile on the corporate overlords for their ethical faceplants,

we forget that they’re merely fulfilling the market’s desires. They’re supplying our demands.
And if we got rid of Facebook or BP or whatever-giant-corporation-is-considered-evil-whenyou-read-this, another would pop up to take its place.
So, maybe the problem isn’t just a bunch of greedy executives tapping cigars and petting evil
cats while laughing hysterically at how much money they’re making.
Maybe what we want sucks.
For example, I want a life-size bag of marshmallows in my living room. I want to buy an
eight-million-dollar mansion by borrowing money I can never pay back. I want to fly to a new
beach every week for the next year and live off nothing but Wagyu steaks.
What I want is fucking terrible. That’s because my Feeling Brain is in charge of what I want,
and my Feeling Brain is like a goddamn chimpanzee who just drank a bottle of tequila and then
proceeded to jerk off into it.
Therefore, I’d say that “give the people what they want” is a pretty low bar to clear, ethically
speaking. “Give the people what they want” works only when you’re giving them innovations,
like a synthetic kidney or something to prevent their car from spontaneously catching on fire.
Give those people what they want. But giving people too many of the diversions they want is a
dangerous game to play. For one, many people want stuff that’s awful. Two, many people are
easily manipulated into wanting shit they don’t actually want (see: Bernays). Three, encouraging
people to avoid pain through more and more diversions makes us all weaker and more fragile.
And four, I don’t want your fucking Skynet ads following me around wherever I go and mining
my fucking life for data. Look, I talked to my wife that one time about a trip to Peru—that
doesn’t mean you need to flood my phone with pictures of Machu Picchu for the next six weeks.
And seriously, stop listening to my fucking conversations and selling my data to anyone and
everyone who will pay you a buck.11
Anyway—where was I?
Strangely, Bernays saw all this coming. The creepy ads and the privacy invasion and the
lulling of large populations into docile servitude through mindless consumerism—the dude was
kind of a genius. Except, he was all in favor of it—so, make that an evil genius.
Bernays’s political beliefs were appalling. He believed in what I suppose you could call “diet
fascism”: same evil authoritarian government but without the unnecessary genocidal calories.
Bernays believed that the masses were dangerous and needed to be controlled by a strong
centralized state. But he also recognized that bloody totalitarian regimes were not exactly ideal.
For him, the new science of marketing offered a way for governments to influence and appease
their citizens without the burden of having to maim and torture them left, right, and center.12
(The dude must have been a hit at parties.)
Bernays believed that freedom for most people was both impossible and dangerous. He was
well aware, from reading Uncle Freud’s writings, that the last thing a society should tolerate was
everyone’s Feeling Brains running the show. Societies needed order and hierarchy and authority,
and freedom was antithetical to those things. He saw marketing as an incredible new tool that
could give people the feeling of having freedom when, really, you’re just giving them a few more
flavors of toothpaste to choose from.
Thankfully, Western governments (for the most part) never sank so low as to directly
manipulate their populations through ad campaigns. Instead, the opposite happened. The
corporate world got so good at giving people what they wanted that they gradually gained more
and more political power for themselves. Regulations were torn up. Bureaucratic oversight was
ended. Privacy eroded. Money got more enmeshed with politics than ever before. And why did it

all happen? You should know by now: they were just giving the people what they wanted!
But, fuck it, let’s be real: “Give the people what they want” is just #FakeFreedom because what
most of us want are diversions. And when we get flooded by diversions, a few things happen.
The first is that we become increasingly fragile. Our world shrinks to conform to the size of
our ever-diminishing values. We become obsessed with comfort and pleasure. And any possible
loss of that pleasure feels world-quaking and cosmically unfair to us. I would argue that a
narrowing of our conceptual world is not freedom; it is the opposite.
The second thing that happens is that we become prone to a series of low-level addictive
behaviors—compulsively checking our phone, our email, our Instagram; compulsively finishing
Netflix series we don’t like; sharing outrage-inducing articles we haven’t read; accepting
invitations to parties and events we don’t enjoy; traveling not because we want to but because we
want to be able to say we went. Compulsive behavior aimed at experiencing more stuff is not
freedom—again, it’s kind of the opposite.
Third thing: an inability to identify, tolerate, and seek out negative emotions is its own kind
of confinement. If you feel okay only when life is happy and easy-breezy-beautiful-Cover-Girl,
then guess what? You are not free. You are the opposite of free. You are the prisoner of your
own indulgences, enslaved by your own intolerance, crippled by your own emotional weakness.
You will constantly feel a need for some external comfort or validation that may or may not ever
come.
Fourth—because, fuck it, I’m on a roll: the paradox of choice. The more options we’re given
(i.e., the more “freedom” we have), the less satisfied we are with whatever option we go with.13
If Jane has to choose between two boxes of cereal, and Mike can choose from twenty boxes,
Mike does not have more freedom than Jane. He has more variety. There’s a difference. Variety
is not freedom. Variety is just different permutations of the same meaningless shit. If, instead,
Jane had a gun pointed to her head and a guy in an SS uniform screaming, “Eat ze fuckin’
zereal!” in a really bad Bavarian accent, then Jane would have less freedom than Mike. But call
me up when that happens.
This is the problem with exalting freedom over human consciousness. More stuff doesn’t
make us freer, it imprisons us with anxiety over whether we chose or did the best thing. More
stuff causes us to become more prone to treating ourselves and others as means rather than ends.
It makes us more dependent on the endless cycles of hope.
If the pursuit of happiness pulls us all back into childishness, then fake freedom conspires to
keep us there. Because freedom is not having more brands of cereal to choose from, or more
beach vacations to take selfies on, or more satellite channels to fall asleep to.
That is variety. And in a vacuum, variety is meaningless. If you are trapped by insecurity,
stymied by doubt, and hamstrung by intolerance, you can have all the variety in the world. But
you are not free.

Real Freedom
The only true form of freedom, the only ethical form of freedom, is through self-limitation. It is
not the privilege of choosing everything you want in your life, but rather, choosing what you will
give up in your life.
This is not only real freedom, this is the only freedom. Diversions come and go. Pleasure
never lasts. Variety loses its meaning. But you will always be able to choose what you are

willing to sacrifice, what you are willing to give up.
This sort of self-denial is paradoxically the only thing that expands real freedom in life. The
pain of regular physical exercise ultimately enhances your physical freedom—your strength,
mobility, endurance, and stamina. The sacrifice of a strong work ethic gives you the freedom to
pursue more job opportunities, to steer your own career trajectory, to earn more money and the
benefits that come with it. The willingness to engage in conflict with others will free you to talk
to anyone, to see if they share your values and beliefs, to discover what they can add to your life
and what you can add to theirs.
You can become freer right now simply by choosing the limitations you want to impose on
yourself. You can choose to wake up earlier each morning, to block your email until
midafternoon each day, to delete social media apps from your phone. These limitations will free
you because they will liberate your time, attention, and power of choice. They treat your
consciousness as an end in itself.
If you struggle to go to the gym, then rent a locker and leave all your work clothes there so
you have to go each morning. Limit yourself to two to three social events each week, so you are
forced to spend time with the people you care about most. Write a check to a close friend or
family member for three thousand dollars and tell them that if you ever smoke a cigarette again,
they get to cash it.14
Ultimately, the most meaningful freedom in your life comes from your commitments, the
things in life for which you have chosen to sacrifice. There is emotional freedom in my
relationship with my wife that I would never be able to reproduce even if I dated a thousand
other women. There is freedom in my having played guitar for twenty years—a deeply artistic
expression—that I could not get if I just memorized dozens of songs. There is freedom in having
lived in one place for fifty years—an intimacy and familiarity with the community and culture—
that you cannot replicate no matter how much of the world you’ve seen.
Greater commitment allows for greater depth. A lack of commitment requires superficiality.
In the last ten years, there has been a trend toward “life hacking.” People want to learn a
language in a month, to visit fifteen countries in a month, to become a champion martial artist in
a week, and they come up with all sorts of “hacks” to do it. You see it all the time on YouTube
and social media these days: people undertaking ridiculous challenges just to show it can be
done. This “hacking” of life, though, simply amounts to trying to reap the rewards of
commitment without actually making a commitment. It’s another sad form of fake freedom. It’s
empty calories for the soul.
I recently read about a guy who memorized moves from a chess program to prove he could
“master” chess in a month. He didn’t learn anything about chess, didn’t engage with the strategy,
develop a style, learn tactics. Nope, he approached it like a gigantic homework assignment:
memorize the moves, win once against some highly ranked player, then declare mastery for
yourself.15
This is not winning anything. This is merely the appearance of winning something. It is the
appearance of commitment and sacrifice without the commitment and sacrifice. It is the
appearance of meaning where there is none.
Fake freedom puts us on the treadmill toward chasing more, whereas real freedom is the
conscious decision to live with less.
Fake freedom is addictive: no matter how much you have, you always feel as though it’s not
enough. Real freedom is repetitive, predictable, and sometimes dull.
Fake freedom has diminishing returns: it requires greater and greater amounts of energy to

achieve the same joy and meaning. Real freedom has increasing returns: it requires less and less
energy to achieve the same joy and meaning.
Fake freedom is seeing the world as an endless series of transactions and bargains which you
feel you’re winning. Real freedom is seeing the world unconditionally, with the only victory
being over your own desires.
Fake freedom requires the world to conform to your will. Real freedom requires nothing of
the world. It is only your will.
Ultimately, the overabundance of diversion and the fake freedom it produces limits our
ability to experience real freedom. The more options we have, the more variety before us, the
more difficult it becomes to choose, sacrifice, and focus. And we are seeing this conundrum play
out across our culture today.
In 2000, the Harvard political scientist Robert Putnam published his seminal book Bowling
Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community.16 In it, he documents the decline of
civic participation across the United States, arguing that people are joining and participating less
in groups, instead preferring to do their activities alone, hence the title of the book: More people
bowl today than before, yet bowling leagues are going extinct. People are bowling alone. Putnam
wrote about the United States, but this not merely an American phenomenon.17
Throughout the book, Putnam shows that this is not limited to recreational groups but is
affecting everything from labor unions to parent-teacher associations to Rotary clubs to churches
to bridge clubs. This atomization of society has significant effects, he argues: social trust has
declined, with people becoming more isolated, less politically engaged, and all-around more
paranoid about their neighbors.18
Loneliness is also a growing issue. Last year, for the first time, a majority of Americans said
they were lonely, and new research is suggesting that we’re replacing a few high-quality
relationships in our lives with a large number of superficial and temporary relationships.19
According to Putnam, the social connective tissue in the country is being destroyed by the
overabundance of diversions. He argued that people were choosing to stay home and watch TV,
surf the internet, or play video games rather than commit themselves to some local organization
or group. He also predicts the situation will likely only get worse.20
Historically, when Westerners have looked at all the oppressed people throughout the world,
we’ve lamented their lack of fake freedom, their lack of diversion. People in North Korea can’t
read the news or shop for clothes they like or listen to music that isn’t state sponsored.
But this is not why North Koreans are not free. They lack freedom not because they are
unable to choose their pleasures, but because they are not allowed to choose their pain. They are
not allowed to choose their commitments freely. They are forced into sacrifices they would not
otherwise want or do not deserve. Pleasure is beside the point—their lack of pleasure is a mere
side effect of their real oppression: their enforced pain.21
Because, today, in most parts of the world, people are now able to choose their pleasures.
They are able to choose what to read and what games to play and what to wear. Modern
diversions are everywhere. But the tyranny of a new age is achieved not by depriving people of
diversions and commitments. Today’s tyranny is achieved by flooding people with so much
diversion, so much bullshit information and frivolous distraction, that they are unable to make
smart commitments. It’s Bernays’s prediction come true, just a few generations later than he
expected. It took the breadth and power of the internet to make his vision of global propaganda

campaigns, of governments and corporations silently steering the desires and wishes of the
masses, a reality.22
But let’s not give Bernays too much credit. After all, he did seem like kind of a douche
balloon.
Besides, there was a man who saw all this coming way before Bernays, a man who saw the
dangers of fake freedom, who saw the proliferation of diversions and the myopic effect they
would have on people’s values, how too much pleasure makes everyone childish and selfish and
entitled and totally narcissistic and unbearable on Twitter. This man was far wiser and more
influential than anyone you would ever see on a news channel or a TED Talk stage or a political
soapbox, for that matter. This guy was the OG of political philosophy. Forget the “Godfather of
Soul,” this guy literally invented the idea of the soul. And he (arguably) saw this whole shitstorm
brewing multiple millennia before anyone else did.

Plato’s Prediction
English philosopher and mathematician Alfred North Whitehead famously said that all of
Western philosophy was merely a “series of footnotes to Plato.”23 Any topic you can think of,
from the nature of romantic love, to whether there’s such a thing as “truth,” to the meaning of
virtue, Plato was likely the first great thinker to expound upon it. Plato was the first to suggest
that there was an inherent separation between the Thinking Brain and the Feeling Brain.24 He
was the first to argue that one must build character through various forms of self-denial, rather
than through self-indulgence.25 Plato was such a badass, the word idea itself comes from him—
so, you could say he invented the idea of an idea.26
Interestingly, despite being the godfather of Western civilization, Plato famously claimed that
democracy was not the most desirable form of government.27 He believed that democracy was
inherently unstable and that it inevitably unleashed the worst aspects of our nature, driving
society toward tyranny. He wrote, “Extreme freedom can’t be expected to lead to anything but a
change to extreme slavery.”28
Democracies are designed to reflect the will of the people. We’ve learned that people, when
left to their own devices, instinctively run away from pain and toward happiness. The problem
then emerges when people achieve happiness: It’s never enough. Due to the Blue Dot Effect,
they never feel entirely safe or satisfied. Their desires grow in lockstep with the quality of their
circumstances.
Eventually, the institutions won’t be able to keep up with the desires of the people. And when
the institutions fail to keep up with people’s happiness, guess what happens.
People start blaming the institutions themselves.
Plato said that democracies inevitably lead to moral decay because as they indulge more in
fake freedom, people’s values deteriorate and become more childish and self-centered, resulting
in the citizenry turning on the democratic system itself. Once childish values take over, people
no longer want to negotiate for power, they don’t want to bargain with other groups and other
religions, they don’t want to endure pain for the sake of greater freedom or prosperity. What they
want instead is a strong leader to come make everything right at a moment’s notice. They want a
tyrant.29
There’s a common saying in the United States that “freedom is not free.” The saying is
usually used in reference to the military and wars fought and won to protect the values of the
country. It’s a way of reminding people that, hey, this shit didn’t just magically happen—

thousands of people were killed and/or died for us to sit here and sip overpriced mocha
Frappuccinos and say whatever the fuck we want. It’s a reminder that the basic human rights we
enjoy (free speech, freedom of religion, freedom of the press) were earned through a sacrifice
against some external force.
But people forget that these rights are also earned through sacrifice against some internal
force. Democracy can exist only when you are willing to tolerate views that oppose your own,
when you’re willing to give up some things you might want for the sake of a safe and healthy
community, when you’re willing to compromise and accept that sometimes things don’t go your
way.
Put another way: democracy requires a citizenry of strong maturity and character.
Over the last couple of decades, people seem to have confused their basic human rights with
not experiencing any discomfort. People want freedom to express themselves, but they don’t
want to have to deal with views that may upset or offend them in some way. They want freedom
of enterprise, but they don’t want to pay taxes to support the legal machinery that makes that
freedom possible. They want equality, but they don’t want to accept that equality requires that
everybody experience the same pain, not that everybody experience the same pleasure.
Freedom itself demands discomfort. It demands dissatisfaction. Because the freer a society
becomes, the more each person will be forced to reckon and compromise with views and
lifestyles and ideas that conflict with their own. The lower our tolerance for pain, the more we
indulge in fake freedoms, the less we will be able to uphold the virtues necessary to allow a free,
democratic society to function.
And that’s scary. Because without democracy, we’re really fucked. No, really—empirically,
life just gets so much worse without democratic representation, in almost every way.30 And it’s
not because democracy is so great. It’s more that a functioning democracy fucks things up less
often and less severely than any other form of government. Or, as Churchill famously once said,
“Democracy is the worst form of government, except all the others.”
The whole reason the world became civilized and everyone stopped slaughtering one another
because of their funny hats is because modern social institutions effectively mitigated the
destructive forces of hope. Democracy is one of the few religions that manages to allow other
religions to live harmoniously alongside it and within it. But when those social institutions are
corrupted by the constant need to please people’s Feeling Brains, when people become
distrustful and lose faith in the democratic system’s ability to self-correct, then it’s back to the
shit show of religious warfare.31 And with the ever-advancing march of technological
innovations, each cycle of religious war potentially wreaks more destruction and devastates more
human life.32
Plato believed societies were cyclical, bouncing back and forth between freedom and
tyranny, relative equality and great inequality. It’s pretty clear after the past twenty-five hundred
years that this isn’t exactly true. But there are patterns of political conflict throughout history,
and you do see the same religious themes pop up again and again—the radical hierarchy of
master morality versus the radical equality of slave morality, the emergence of tyrannical leaders
versus the diffuse power of democratic institutions, the struggle of adult virtues against childish
extremism. While the “isms” have changed throughout the centuries, the same hope-driven
human impulses have been behind each movement. And while each subsequent religion believes
it is the ultimate, capital T “Truth” to unite humanity under a single, harmonious banner, so far,
each of them has only proven to be partial and incomplete.

Chapter 9

The Final Religion
In 1997, Deep Blue, a supercomputer developed by IBM, beat Garry Kasparov, the world’s best
chess player. It was a watershed moment in the history of computing, a seismic event that shook
many people’s understanding of technology, intelligence, and humanity. But today, it is but a
quaint memory: of course a computer would beat the world champion at chess. Why wouldn’t it?
Since the beginning of computing, chess has been a favorite means to test artificial
intelligence.1 That’s because chess possesses a near-infinite number of permutations: there are
more possible chess games than there are atoms in the observable universe. In any board
position, if one looks only three or four moves ahead, there are already hundreds of millions of
variations.
For a computer to match a human player, not only must it be capable of calculating an
incredible number of possible outcomes, but it must also have solid algorithms to help it decide
what’s worth calculating. Put another way: to beat a human player, a computer’s Thinking Brain,
despite being vastly superior to a human’s, must be programmed to evaluate more/less valuable
board positions—that is, the computer must have a modestly powerful “Feeling Brain”
programmed into it.2
Since that day in 1997, computers have continued to improve at chess at a staggering rate.
Over the following fifteen years, the top human players regularly got pummeled by chess
software, sometimes by embarrassing margins.3 Today, it’s not even close. Kasparov himself
recently joked that the chess app that comes installed on most smartphones “is far more powerful
than Deep Blue was.”4 These days, chess software developers hold tournaments for their
programs to see whose algorithms come out on top. Humans are not only excluded from these
tournaments, but they’d likely not even place high enough for it to matter anyway.
The undisputed champion of the chess software world for the past few years has been an
open-source program called Stockfish. Stockfish has either won or been the runner-up in almost
every significant chess software tournament since 2014. A collaboration between half a dozen
lifelong chess software developers, Stockfish today represents the pinnacle of chess logic. Not
only is it a chess engine, but it can analyze any game, any position, giving grandmaster-level
feedback within seconds of each move a player makes.
Stockfish was happily going along being the king of the computerized chess mountain, being
the gold standard of all chess analysis worldwide, until 2018, when Google showed up to the
party.
Then shit got weird.
Google has a program called AlphaZero. It’s not chess software. It’s artificial intelligence
(AI) software. Instead of being programmed to play chess or another game, the software is
programmed to learn—and not just chess, but any game.
Early in 2018, Stockfish faced off against Google’s AlphaZero. On paper, it was not even
close to a fair fight. AlphaZero can calculate “only” eighty thousand board positions per second.

Stockfish? Seventy million. In terms of computational power, that’s like me entering a footrace
against a Formula One race car.
But it gets even weirder: the day of the match, AlphaZero didn’t even know how to play
chess. Yes, that’s right—before its match with the best chess software in the world, AlphaZero
had less than a day to learn chess from scratch. The software spent most of the day running
simulations of chess games against itself, learning as it went. It developed strategies and
principles the same way a human would: through trial and error.
Imagine the scenario. You’ve just learned the rules of chess, one of the most complex games
on the planet. You’re given less than a day to mess around with a board and figure out some
strategies. And from there, your first game ever will be against the world champion.
Good luck.
Yet, somehow, AlphaZero won. Okay, it didn’t just win. AlphaZero smashed Stockfish. Out
of one hundred games, AlphaZero won or drew every single game.
Read that again: a mere nine hours after learning the rules to chess, AlphaZero played the
best chess-playing entity in the world and did not drop a single game out of one hundred. It was a
result so unprecedented that people still don’t know what to make of it. Human grandmasters
marveled at the creativity and ingenuity of AlphaZero. One, Peter Heine Nielsen, gushed, “I
always wondered how it would be if a superior species landed on earth and showed us how they
play chess. I feel now I know.”5
When AlphaZero was done with Stockfish, it didn’t take a break. Pfft, please! Breaks are for
frail humans. Instead, as soon as it had finished with Stockfish, AlphaZero began teaching itself
the strategy game Shogi.
Shogi is often referred to as Japanese chess, but many argue that it’s more complex than
chess.6 Whereas Kasparov lost to a computer in 1997, top Shogi players didn’t begin to lose to
computers until 2013. Either way, AlphaZero destroyed the top Shogi software (called “Elmo”),
and by a similarly astounding margin: in one hundred games, it won ninety, lost eight, and drew
two. Once again, AlphaZero’s computational powers were far less than Elmo’s. (In this case, it
could calculate forty thousand moves per second compared to Elmo’s thirty-five million.) And
once again, AlphaZero hadn’t even known how to play the game the previous day.
In the morning, it taught itself two infinitely complex games. And by sundown, it had
dismantled the best-known competition on earth.
News flash: AI is coming. And while chess and Shogi are one thing, as soon as we take AI out of
the board games and start putting it in the board rooms . . . well, you and I and everyone else will
probably find ourselves out of a job.7
Already, AI programs have invented their own languages that humans can’t decipher,
become more effective than doctors at diagnosing pneumonia, and even written passable
chapters of Harry Potter fan fiction.8 At the time of this writing, we’re on the cusp of having selfdriving cars, automated legal advice, and even computer-generated art and music.9
Slowly but surely, AI will become better than we are at pretty much everything: medicine,
engineering, construction, art, technological innovation. You’ll watch movies created by AI, and
discuss them on websites or mobile platforms built by AI, moderated by AI, and it might even
turn out that the “person” you’ll argue with will be an AI.
But as crazy as that sounds, it’s just the beginning. Because here is where the bananas will
really hit the fan: the day an AI can write AI software better than we can.
When that day comes, when an AI can essentially spawn better versions of itself, at will, then

buckle your seatbelt, amigo, because it’s going to be a wild ride and we will no longer have
control over where we’re going.
AI will reach a point where its intelligence outstrips ours by so much that we will no longer
comprehend what it’s doing. Cars will pick us up for reasons we don’t understand and take us to
locations we didn’t know existed. We will unexpectedly receive medications for health issues we
didn’t know we suffered from. It’s possible that our kids will switch schools, we will change
jobs, economic policies will abruptly shift, governments will rewrite their constitutions—and
none of us will comprehend the full reasons why. It will just happen. Our Thinking Brains will
be too slow, and our Feeling Brains too erratic and dangerous. Like AlphaZero inventing chess
strategies in mere hours that chess’s greatest minds could not anticipate, advanced AI could
reorganize society and all our places within it in ways we can’t imagine.
Then, we will end up right back where we began: worshipping impossible and unknowable
forces that seemingly control our fates. Just as primitive humans prayed to their gods for rain and
flame—the same way they made sacrifices, offered gifts, devised rituals, and altered their
behavior and appearance to curry favor with the naturalistic gods—so will we. But instead of the
primitive gods, we will offer ourselves up to the AI gods.
We will develop superstitions about the algorithms. If you wear this, the algorithms will
favor you. If you wake at a certain hour and say the right thing and show up at the right place,
the machines will bless you with great fortune. If you are honest and you don’t hurt others and
you take care of yourself and your family, the AI gods will protect you.
The old gods will be replaced by the new gods: the algorithms. And in a twist of evolutionary
irony, the same science that killed the gods of old will have built the gods of new. There will be a
great return to religiosity among mankind. And our religions won’t necessarily be so different
from the religions of the ancient world—after all, our psychology is fundamentally evolved to
deify what it doesn’t understand, to exalt the forces that help or harm us, to construct systems of
values around our experiences, to seek out conflict that generates hope.
Why would AI be any different?
Our AI gods will understand this, of course. And either they will find a way to “upgrade” our
brains out of our primitive psychological need for continuous strife, or they will simply
manufacture artificial strife for us. We will be like their pet dogs, convinced that we are
protecting and fighting for our territory at all costs but, in reality, merely peeing on an endless
series of digital fire hydrants.
This may frighten you. This may excite you. Either way, it is likely inevitable. Power
emerges from the ability to manipulate and process information, and we always end up
worshipping whatever has the most power over us.
So, allow me to say that I, for one, welcome our AI overlords.
I know, that’s not the final religion you were hoping for. But that’s where you went wrong:
hoping.
Don’t lament the loss of your own agency. If submitting to artificial algorithms sounds awful,
understand this: you already do. And you like it.
The algorithms already run much of our lives. The route you took to work is based on an
algorithm. Many of the friends you talked to this week? Those conversations were based on an
algorithm. The gift you bought your kid, the amount of toilet paper that came in the deluxe pack,
the fifty cents in savings you got for being a rewards member at the supermarket—all the result
of algorithms.
We need these algorithms because they make our lives easier. And so will the algorithm gods

of the near future. And as we did with the gods of the ancient world, we will rejoice in and give
thanks to them. Indeed, it will be impossible to imagine life without them.10 These algorithms
make our lives better. They make our lives more efficient. They make us more efficient.
That’s why, as soon as we cross over, there’s no going back.

We Are Bad Algorithms
Here’s one last way to look at the history of the world:
The difference between life and stuff is that life is stuff that self-replicates. Life is made out
of cells and DNA that spawn more and more copies of themselves.
Over the course of hundreds of millions of years, some of these primordial life forms
developed feedback mechanisms to better reproduce themselves. An early protozoon might
evolve little sensors on its membrane to better detect amino acids by which to replicate more
copies of itself, thus giving it an advantage over other single-cell organisms. But then maybe
some other single-cell organism develops a way to “trick” other little amoeba-like things’
sensors, thus interfering with their ability to find food, and giving itself an advantage.
Basically, there’s been a biological arms race going on since the beginning of forever. This
little single-cell thing develops a cool strategy to get more material to replicate itself than do
other single-cell organisms, and therefore it wins the resources and reproduces more. Then
another little single-cell thing evolves and has an even better strategy for getting food, and it
proliferates. This continues, on and on, for billions of years, and pretty soon you have lizards that
can camouflage their skin and monkeys that can fake animal sounds and awkward middle-aged
divorced men spending all their money on bright red Chevy Camaros even though they can’t
really afford them—all because it promotes their survival and ability to reproduce.
This is the story of evolution—survival of the fittest and all that.
But you could also look at it a different way. You could call it “survival of the best
information processing.”
Okay, not as catchy, perhaps, but it actually might be more accurate.
See, that amoeba that evolves sensors on its membrane to better detect amino acids—that is,
at its core, a form of information processing. It is better able than other organisms to detect the
facts of its environment. And because it developed a better way to process information than other
blobby cell-like things, it won the evolutionary game and spread its genes.
Similarly, the lizard that can camouflage its skin—that, too, has evolved a way to manipulate
visual information to trick predators into ignoring it. Same story with the monkeys faking animal
noises. Same deal with the desperate middle-aged dude and his Camaro (or maybe not).
Evolution rewards the most powerful creatures, and power is determined by the ability to
access, harness, and manipulate information effectively. A lion can hear its prey over a mile
away. A buzzard can see a rat from an altitude of three thousand feet. Whales develop their own
personal songs and can communicate up to a hundred miles away from each other while
underwater. These are all examples of exceptional information-processing capabilities, and that
ability to receive and process information is linked to these creatures’ ability to survive and
reproduce.
Physically, humans are pretty unexceptional. We are weak, slow, and frail, and we tire
easily.11 But we are nature’s ultimate information processors. We are the only species that can
conceptualize the past and future, that can deduce long chains of cause and effect, that can plan
and strategize in abstract terms, that can build and create and problem-solve in perpetuity.12 Out

of millions of years of evolution, the Thinking Brain (Kant’s sacred conscious mind) is what has,
in a few short millennia, dominated the entire planet and called into existence a vast, intricate
web of production, technology, and networks.
That’s because we are algorithms. Consciousness itself is a vast network of algorithms and
decision trees—algorithms based on values and knowledge and hope.
Our algorithms worked pretty well for the first few hundred thousand years. They worked
well on the savannah, when we were hunting bison and living in small nomadic communities and
never met more than thirty people in our entire lives.
But in a globally networked economy of billions of people, stocked with thousands of nukes
and Facebook privacy violations and holographic Michael Jackson concerts, our algorithms kind
of suck. They break down and enter us into ever-escalating cycles of conflict that, by the nature
of our algorithms, can produce no permanent satisfaction, no final peace.
It’s like that brutal advice you sometimes hear, that the only thing all your fucked-up
relationships have in common is you. Well, the only thing that all the biggest problems in the
world have in common is us. Nukes wouldn’t be a problem if there weren’t some dumb fuck
sitting there tempted to use them. Biochemical weapons, climate change, endangered species,
genocide—you name it, none of it was an issue until we came along.13 Domestic violence, rape,
money laundering, fraud—it’s all us.
Life is fundamentally built on algorithms. We just happen to be the most sophisticated and
complex algorithms nature has yet produced, the zenith of about one billion years’ worth of
evolutionary forces. And now we are on the cusp of producing algorithms that are exponentially
better than we are.
Despite all our accomplishments, the human mind is still incredibly flawed. Our ability to
process information is hamstrung by our emotional need to validate ourselves. It is curved
inward by our perceptual biases. Our Thinking Brain is regularly hijacked and kidnapped by our
Feeling Brain’s incessant desires—stuffed in the trunk of the Consciousness Car and often
gagged or drugged into incapacitation.
And as we’ve seen, our moral compass too frequently gets swung off course by our
inevitable need to generate hope through conflict. As the moral psychologist Jonathan Haidt put
it, “morality binds and blinds.”14 Our Feeling Brains are antiquated, outdated software. And
while our Thinking Brains are decent, they’re too slow and clunky to be of much use anymore.
Just ask Garry Kasparov.
We are a self-hating, self-destructive species.15 That is not a moral statement; it’s simply a
fact. This internal tension we all feel, all the time? That’s what got us here. It’s what got us to
this point. It’s our arms race. And we’re about to hand over the evolutionary baton to the
defining information processors of the next epoch: the machines.
When Elon Musk was asked what the most imminent threats to humanity were, he quickly said
there were three: first, wide-scale nuclear war; second, climate change—and then, before naming
the third, he fell silent. His face became sullen. He looked down, deep in thought. When the
interviewer asked him, “What is the third?” He smiled and said, “I just hope the computers
decide to be nice to us.”
There is a lot of fear out there that AI will wipe away humanity. Some suspect this might
happen in a dramatic Terminator 2–type conflagration. Others worry that some machine will kill
us off by “accident,” that an AI designed to innovate better ways to make toothpicks will
somehow discover that harvesting human bodies is the best way.16 Bill Gates, Stephen Hawking,

and Elon Musk are just a few of the leading thinkers and scientists who have crapped their pants
at how rapidly AI is developing and how underprepared we are as a species for its repercussions.
But I think this fear is a bit silly. For one, how do you prepare for something that is vastly
more intelligent than you are? It’s like training a dog to play chess against . . . well, Kasparov.
No matter how much the dog thinks and prepares, it’s not going to matter.
More important, the machines’ understanding of good and evil will likely surpass our own.
As I write this, five different genocides are taking place in the world.17 Seven hundred ninetyfive million people are starving or undernourished.18 By the time you finish this chapter, more
than a hundred people, just in the United States, will be beaten, abused, or killed by a family
member, in their own home.19
Are there potential dangers with AI? Sure. But morally speaking, we’re throwing rocks
inside a glass house here. What do we know about ethics and the humane treatment of animals,
the environment, and one another? That’s right: pretty much nothing. When it comes to moral
questions, humanity has historically flunked the test, over and over again. Superintelligent
machines will likely come to understand life and death, creation and destruction, on a much
higher level than we ever could on our own. And the idea that they will exterminate us for the
simple fact that we aren’t as productive as we used to be, or that sometimes we can be a
nuisance, I think, is just projecting the worst aspects of our own psychology onto something we
don’t understand and never will.
Or, here’s an idea: What if technology advances to such a degree that it renders individual
human consciousness arbitrary? What if consciousness can be replicated, expanded, and
contracted at will? What if removing all these clunky, inefficient biological prisons we call
“bodies,” or all these clunky, inefficient psychological prisons we call “individual identities,”
results in far more ethical and prosperous outcomes? What if the machines realize we’d be much
happier being freed from our cognitive prisons and having our perception of our own identities
expanded to include all perceivable reality? What if they think we’re just a bunch of drooling
idiots and keep us occupied with perfect virtual reality porn and amazing pizza until we all die
off by our own mortality?
Who are we to know? And who are we to say?
Nietzsche wrote his books just a couple of decades after Darwin’s On the Origin of Species was
published in 1859. By the time Nietzsche came onto the scene, the world was reeling from
Darwin’s magnificent discoveries, trying to process and make sense of their implications.
And while the world was freaking out about whether humans really evolved from apes or
not, Nietzsche, as usual, looked in the opposite direction of everyone else. He took it as obvious
that we evolved from apes. After all, he said, why else would we be so horrible to one another?
Instead of asking what we evolved from, Nietzsche instead asked what we were evolving
toward.
Nietzsche said that man was a transition, suspended precariously on a rope between two
ledges, with beasts behind us and something greater in front of us. His life’s work was dedicated
to figuring out what that something greater might be and then pointing us toward it.
Nietzsche envisioned a humanity that transcended religious hopes, that extended itself
“beyond good and evil,” and rose above the petty quarrels of contradictory value systems. It is
these value systems that fail us and hurt us and keep us down in the emotional holes of our own
creation. The emotional algorithms that exalt life and make it soar in blistering joy are the same
forces that unravel us and destroy us, from the inside out.

So far, our technology has exploited the flawed algorithms of our Feeling Brain. Technology
has worked to make us less resilient and more addicted to frivolous diversions and pleasures,
because these diversions are incredibly profitable. And while technology has liberated much of
the planet from poverty and tyranny, it has produced a new kind of tyranny: a tyranny of empty,
meaningless variety, a never-ending stream of unnecessary options.
It has also armed us with weapons so devastating that we could torpedo this whole
“intelligent life” experiment ourselves if we’re not careful.
I believe artificial intelligence is Nietzsche’s “something greater.” It is the Final Religion, the
religion that lies beyond good and evil, the religion that will finally unite and bind us all, for
better or worse.
It is, then, simply our job not to blow ourselves up before we get there.
And the only way to do that is to adapt our technology for our flawed psychology rather than
to exploit it.
To create tools that promote greater character and maturity in our cultures rather than
diverting us from growth.
To enshrine the virtues of autonomy, liberty, privacy, and dignity not just in our legal
documents but also in our business models and our social lives.
To treat people not merely as means but also as ends, and more important, to do it at scale.
To encourage antifragility and self-imposed limitation in each of us, rather than protecting
everyone’s feelings.
To create tools to help our Thinking Brain better communicate and manage the Feeling
Brain, and to bring them into alignment, producing the illusion of greater self-control.
Look, it may be that you came to this book looking for some sort of hope, an assurance that
things will get better—do this, that, and the other thing, and everything will improve.
I am sorry. I don’t have that kind of answer for you. Nobody does. Because even if all the
problems of today get magically fixed, our minds will still perceive the inevitable fuckedness of
tomorrow.
So, instead of looking for hope, try this:
Don’t hope.
Don’t despair, either.
In fact, don’t deign to believe you know anything. It’s that assumption of knowing with such
blind, fervent, emotional certainty that gets us into these kinds of pickles in the first place.
Don’t hope for better. Just be better.
Be something better. Be more compassionate, more resilient, more humble, more disciplined.
Many people would also throw in there “Be more human,” but no—be a better human. And
maybe, if we’re lucky, one day we’ll get to be more than human.

If I Dare . . .
I say to you today, my friends, that even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow,
in this final moment, I will allow myself to dare to hope . . .
I dare to hope for a post-hope world, where people are never treated merely as means but
always as ends, where no consciousness is sacrificed for some greater religious aim, where no
identity is harmed out of malice or greed or negligence, where the ability to reason and act is
held in the highest regard by all, and where this is reflected not only in our hearts but also in our

social institutions and business models.
I dare to hope that people will stop suppressing either their Thinking Brain or their Feeling
Brain and marry the two in a holy matrimony of emotional stability and psychological maturity;
that people will become aware of the pitfalls of their own desires, of the seduction of their
comforts, of the destruction behind their whims, and will instead seek out the discomfort that
will force them to grow.
I dare to hope that the fake freedom of variety will be rejected by people in favor of the
deeper, more meaningful freedom of commitment; that people will opt in to self-limitation rather
than the quixotic quest of self-indulgence; that people will demand something better of
themselves first before demanding something better from the world.
That said, I dare to hope that one day the online advertising business model will die in a
fucking dumpster fire; that the news media will no longer have incentives to optimize content for
emotional impact but, rather, for informational utility; that technology will seek not to exploit
our psychological fragility but, rather, to counterbalance it; that information will be worth
something again; that anything will be worth something again.
I dare to hope that search engines and social media algorithms will be optimized for truth and
social relevance rather than simply showing people what they want to see; that there will be
independent, third-party algorithms that rate the veracity of headlines, websites, and news stories
in real time, allowing users to more quickly sift through the propaganda-laden garbage and get
closer to evidence-based truth; that there will be actual respect for empirically tested data,
because in an infinite sea of possible beliefs, evidence is the only life preserver we’ve got.
I dare to hope that one day we will have AI that will listen to all the dumb shit we write and
say and will point out (just to us, maybe) our cognitive biases, uninformed assumptions, and
prejudices—like a little notification that pops up on your phone letting you know that you just
totally exaggerated the unemployment rate when arguing with your uncle, or that you were
talking out of your ass the other night when you were doling out angry tweet after angry tweet.
I dare to hope that there will be tools to help people understand statistics, proportions, and
probability in real time and realize that, no, a few people getting shot in the far corners of the
globe does not have any bearing on you, no matter how scary it looks on TV; that most “crises”
are statistically insignificant and/or just noise; and that most real crises are too slow-moving and
unexciting to get the attention they deserve.
I dare to hope that education will get a much-needed facelift, incorporating not only
therapeutic practices to help children with their emotional development, but also letting them run
around and scrape their knees and get into all sorts of trouble. Children are the kings and queens
of antifragility, the masters of pain. It is we who are afraid.
I dare to hope that the oncoming catastrophes of climate change and automation are
mitigated, if not outright prevented, by the inevitable explosion of technology wrought by the
impending AI revolution; that some dumb fuck with a nuke doesn’t obliterate us all before that
happens; and that a new, radical human religion doesn’t emerge that convinces us to destroy our
own humanity, as so many have done before.
I dare to hope that AI hurries along and develops some new virtual reality religion that is so
enticing that none of us can tear ourselves away from it long enough to get back to fucking and
killing each other. It will be a church in the cloud, except it will be experienced as one universal
video game. There will be offerings and rites and sacraments just as there will points and
rewards and progression systems for strict adherence. We will all log on, and stay on, because it
will be our only conduit for influencing the AI gods and, therefore, the only wellspring that can

quench our insatiable desire for meaning and hope.
Groups of people will rebel against the new AI gods, of course. But this will be by design, as
humanity always needs factious groups of opposing religions, for this is the only way for us to
prove our own significance. Bands of infidels and heretics will emerge in this virtual landscape,
and we will spend most of our time battling and railing against these various factions. We will
seek to destroy one another’s moral standing and diminish each other’s accomplishments, all the
while not realizing that this was intended. The AI, realizing that the productive energies of
humanity emerge only through conflict, will generate endless series of artificial crises in a safe
virtual realm, where that productivity and ingenuity can then be cultivated and used for some
greater purpose we won’t ever know or understand. Human hope will be harvested like a
resource, a never-ending reservoir of creative energy.
We will worship at AI’s digitized altars. We will follow their arbitrary rules and play their
games not because we’re forced to, but because they will be designed so well that we will want
to.
We need our lives to mean something, and while the startling advance of technology has
made finding that meaning more difficult, the ultimate innovation will be the day we can
manufacture significance without strife or conflict, find importance without the necessity of
death.
And then, maybe one day, we will become integrated with the machines themselves. Our
individual consciousnesses will be subsumed. Our independent hopes will vanish. We will meet
and merge in the cloud, and our digitized souls will swirl and eddy in the storms of data, a splay
of bits and functions harmoniously brought into some grand, unseen alignment.
We will have evolved into a great unknowable entity. We will transcend the limitations of
our own value-laden minds. We will live beyond means and ends, for we will always be both,
one and the same. We will have crossed the evolutionary bridge into “something greater” and
ceased to be human any longer.
Perhaps then, we will not only realize but finally embrace the Uncomfortable Truth: that we
imagined our own importance, we invented our purpose, and we were, and still are, nothing.
All along, we were nothing.
And maybe then, only then, will the eternal cycle of hope and destruction come to an end.
Or—?

Acknowledgments

This book, in many ways, lived up to its title while being written. There were many occasions
when it seemed as though everything was irreparably fucked because I had fallen victim to my
own overzealous hopes. Yet, somehow—often late at night, with me staring bleary-eyed at a
mush of words on my screen—things came together. And now I am incredibly proud of the
result.
I wouldn’t have survived this ordeal without the help and support of a great number of
people. My editor, Luke Dempsey, who lived with the same gun to his head for six months (or
more) that I did—you really came through in stoppage time, mate. Thank you. Mollie Glick, who
is more like a fairy godmother at this point than an agent—I wake up, and amazing shit just
appears in my life out of nowhere. It’s incredible. To my Web team, Philip Kemper and Drew
Birnie, who continue to make me appear far more competent and knowledgeable than I actually
am—I’m extremely proud of what the three of us have built online and I can’t wait to see what
you two are capable of in coming years.
And then there’s the smattering of friends who showed up big when it counted: Nir Eyal—
for getting me up and writing during many frigid New York mornings when I could easily have
stayed in bed. Taylor Pearson, James Clear, and Ryan Holiday—for listening to me vent and
ramble and freak out when I needed to (which was fairly often) and for patiently offering advice.
Peter Shallard, Jon Krop, and Jodi Ettenberg—for dropping everything to read some maimed
chapter and then sending me notes and feedback. Michael Covell—for being a top-shelf bro. And
WS, who somehow managed to be both the cause and solution to this whole fucking mess—you
were an unexpected inspiration without even trying to be. “The trick is you bite off more than
you can chew . . . and then you chew it.”
I’d be remiss if I did not give a shout out the NYC Chapter of the Gentleman’s Literary
Safari—how could I have known that a nerdy book club started in my kitchen last summer would
regularly be the highlight of my month? Much of this book was born from those long
philosophical meanderings with you guys. Thank you. And remember, lads: “Being is always the
being of a being.”
And finally, to my wonderful wife, Fernanda Neute. I could fill an entire page with
superlatives about this woman and how much she means to me, and every single one of them
would be true. But I will spare the ink and extra paper—just as she would want—and keep it
short. Thank you for the gift of commitment and self-limitation. If I’m ever able to hope for
nothing, it will be for the simple reason that I’m already with you.

Notes

Chapter 1: The Uncomfortable Truth
1. A. J. Zautra, Emotions, Stress, and Health (New York: Oxford University Press, 2003), pp. 15–22.
2. I don’t use the word hope in this book in the way it is typically used academically. Most academics use “hope” to express a
feeling of optimism: an expectation of or belief in the possibility of positive results. This definition is partial and limited.
Optimism can feed hope, but it is not the same thing as hope. I can have no expectation for something better to happen, but I can
still hope for it. And that hope can still give my life a sense of meaning and purpose despite all evidence to the contrary. No, by
“hope,” I am referring to a motivation toward something perceived as valuable, what is sometimes described as “purpose” or
“meaning” in the academic literature. As a result, for my discussions of hope, I’ll draw on research on motivation and value
theory and, in many cases, try to fuse them together.
3. M. W. Gallagher and S. J. Lopez, “Positive Expectancies and Mental Health: Identifying the Unique Contributions of Hope
and Optimism,” Journal of Positive Psychology 4, no. 6 (2009): 548–56.
4.

This is almost certainly an overstatement.

5.

See Ernest Becker, The Denial of Death (New York: Free Press, 1973).

6. Am I allowed to cite myself? Fuck it, I’m going to cite myself. See Mark Manson, “7 Strange Questions That Help You Find
Your Life Purpose,” Mark Manson.net, September 18, 2014, https://markmanson.net/life-purpose.
7. For data on religiosity and suicide, see Kanita Dervic, MD, et al., “Religious Affiliation and Suicide Attempt,” American
Journal of Psychiatry 161, no. 12 (2004): 2303–8. For data on religiosity and depression, see Sasan Vasegh et al. “Religious and
Spiritual Factors in Depression,” Depression Research and Treatment, published online September 18, 2012, doi:
10.1155/2012/298056.
8. Studies done in more than 132 countries show that the wealthier a country becomes, the more its population struggles with
feelings of meaning and purpose. See Shigehiro Oishi and Ed Diener, “Residents of Poor Nations Have a Greater Sense of
Meaning in Life than Residents of Wealthy Nations,” Psychological Science 25, no. 2 (2014): 422–30.
9. Pessimism is widespread in the wealthy, developed world. When the public opinion data company YouGov surveyed people
in seventeen countries in 2015 on whether they believed the world was getting better, worse, or staying the same, fewer than 10
percent of people in the richest countries believed it was getting better. In the United States, only 6 percent said it was getting
better. In Australia and France, that figure was only 3 percent. See Max Roser, “Good News: The World Is Getting Better. Bad
News: You Were Wrong About How Things Have Changed,” World Economic Forum, August 15, 2018,
https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2018/08/good-news-the-world-is-getting-better-bad-news-you-were-wrong-about-how-thingshave-changed.
10. The books I refer to are Steven Pinker’s Enlightenment Now: The Case for Reason, Science, Humanism, and Progress
(New York: Viking, 2018), and Hans Rosling’s Factfulness: Ten Reasons We’re Wrong About the World—And Why Things Are
Better Than You Think (New York: Flatiron Books, 2018). I needle the authors a bit here, but these are two excellent and
important books.
11. This “corner to corner” phrase is a riff on Andrew Sullivan’s excellent piece on this same topic. See Andrew Sullivan, “The
World Is Better Than Ever. Why Are We Miserable?” Intelligencer, March 9, 2018.
12. Max Roser and Esteban Ortiz-Ospina, “Global Rise of Education,” published online at OurWorldInData.org, 2018,
https://ourworldindata.org/global-rise-of-education.
13. For an exhaustive treatment of the historical reduction in violence, Pinker’s book is indispensable. See Steven Pinker, The
Better Angels of Our Nature: Why Violence Has Declined (New York: Penguin Books, 2012).
14.

Pinker, Enlightenment Now, pp. 214–32.

15.

Ibid., pp. 199–213.

16. “Internet Users in the World by
https://www.internetworldstats.com/stats.htm.
17.

Regions,

June

30,

2018,”

pie

chart,

InternetWorldStats.com,

Diana Beltekian and Esteban Ortiz-Ospina, “Extreme Poverty Is Falling: How Is Poverty Changing for Higher Poverty

Lines?” March 5, 2018, Our WorldInData.org, https://ourworldindata.org/poverty-at-higher-poverty-lines.
18.

Pinker, The Better Angels of Our Nature, pp. 249–67.

19.

Pinker, Enlightenment Now, pp. 53–61.

20.

Ibid., pp. 79–96.

21. Vaccinations are probably the single greatest advancement of human well-being in the past one hundred years. One study
found that the WHO’s global vaccination campaign in the 1980s likely prevented more than twenty million cases of dangerous
diseases worldwide and saved $1.53 trillion in health care costs. The only diseases ever eradicated entirely were eradicated due to
vaccines. This is part of why the antivaccination movement is so infuriating. See Walter A. Orenstein and Rafi Ahmed, “Simply
Put: Vaccinations Save Lives,” PNAS 114, no. 16 (2017): 4031–33.
22. G. L. Klerman and M. M. Weissman, “Increasing Rates of Depression,” Journal of the American Medical Association 261
(1989): 2229–35. See also J. M. Twenge, “Time Period and Birth Cohort Differences in Depressive Symptoms in the U.S., 1982–
2013,” Social Indicators Research 121 (2015): 437–54.
23. Myrna M. Weissman, PhD, Priya Wickramaratne, PhD, Steven Greenwald, MA, et al., “The Changing Rates of Major
Depression,” JAMA Psychiatry 268, no. 21 (1992): 3098–105.
24. C. M. Herbst, “‘Paradoxical’ Decline? Another Look at the Relative Reduction in Female Happiness,” Journal of Economic
Psychology 32 (2011): 773–88.
25. S. Cohen and D. Janicki-Deverts, “Who’s Stressed? Distributions of Psychological Stress in the United States in Probability
Samples from 1983, 2006, and 2009,” Journal of Applied Social Psychology 42 (2012): 1320–34.
26. For a harrowing and impassioned analysis of the opioid crisis ripping through North America, see Andrew Sullivan, “The
Poison We Pick,” New York Magazine, February 2018, http://nymag.com/intelligencer/2018/02/americas-opioid-epidemic.html.
27. “New Cigna Study Reveals Loneliness at Epidemic Levels in America,” Cigna’s Loneliness Index, May 1, 2018,
https://www.multivu.com/players/English/8294451-cigna-us-loneliness-survey/.
28. The Edelman Trust Index finds a continued decline in social trust across most of the developed world. See “The 2018
World
Trust
Barometer:
World
Report,”
https://www.edelman.com/sites/g/files/aatuss191/files/201810/2018_Edelman_Trust_Barometer_Global_Report_FEB.pdf.
29. Miller McPherson, Lynn Smith-Lovin, and Matthew E. Brashears, “Social Isolation in America: Changes in Core
Discussion Networks over Two Decades,” American Sociological Review 71, no. 3 (2006): 353–75.
30. Wealthier countries, on average, have higher suicide rates than poorer countries. Data can be found from the World Health
Organization, “Suicide Rates Data by Country,” http://apps.who.int/gho/data/node.main.MHSUICIDEASDR?lang=en. Suicide is
also more prevalent in wealthier neighborhoods compared with poorer neighborhoods. See Josh Sanburn, “Why Suicides Are
More Common in Richer Neighborhoods,” Time, November 8, 2012, http://business.time.com/2012/11/08/why-suicides-aremore-common-in-richer-neighborhoods/.
31.

Each of these is true, by the way.

32. My three-part definition of hope is a merging of theories on motivation, value, and meaning. As a result, I’ve kind of
combined a few different academic models to suit my purposes.
The first is self-determination theory, which states that we require three things to feel motivated and satisfied in our lives:
autonomy, competence, and relatedness. I’ve merged autonomy and competence under the umbrella of “self-control” and, for
reasons that will become clear in chapter 4, restyled relatedness as “community.” What I believe is missing in self-determination
theory—or, rather, what is implied but never stated—is that there is something worth being motivated for, that there is something
valuable in the world that exists and deserves to be pursued. That’s where the third component of hope comes in: values.
For a sense of value or purpose, I’ve pulled from Roy Baumeister’s model of “meaningfulness.” In this model, we need four
things to feel that our life is meaningful: purpose, values, efficacy, and self-worth. Again, I’ve lumped “efficacy” under the “selfcontrol” umbrella. The other three, I’ve put under the umbrella of “values,” things we believe to be worthwhile and important and
that make us feel good about ourselves. Chapter 3 will dissect at length my understanding of values. To learn more about selfdetermination theory, see R. M. Ryan and E. L. Deci, “Self-Determination Theory and the Facilitation of Intrinsic Motivation,
Social Development, and Well-being,” American Psychologist 55 (2000): 68–78. For Baumeister’s model, see Roy Baumeister,
Meanings of Life (New York: Guilford Press, 1991), pp. 29–56.
Chapter 2: Self-Control Is an Illusion
1. Elliot’s case is adapted from Antonio Damasio, Descartes’ Error: Emotion, Reason, and the Human Brain (New York:
Penguin Books, 2005), pp. 34–51. Elliot is the pseudonym given to the patient by Damasio.
2. This and many of the examples from his family life (Little League games, Family Feud, etc.) are fictionalized simply to
illustrate the point. They are not from Damasio’s account and probably didn’t happen.
3. Ibid., p. 38. Damasio uses the term free will, whereas I use the term self-control. Both can be thought of in self-determination
theory as the need for autonomy (see Damasio, Descartes’ Error, chap. 1, note 32).

4. Waits muttered the joke on Norman Lear’s television show Fernwood 2 Night in 1977, but he didn’t come up with it.
Nobody knows where the joke originated, and if you try to find out online, you’ll lose yourself down a rabbit hole of theories.
Some have credited the joke to the writer Dorothy Parker, others to comedian Steve Allen. Waits himself claimed he didn’t
remember where he first heard it. He also admitted that the joke wasn’t his.
5. Some early frontal lobotomies actually used icepicks. Walter Freeman, the biggest proponent of the procedure in the United
States, used icepicks exclusively before moving away from them because too many were breaking off and getting stuck inside
patients’ heads. See Hernish J. Acharya, “The Rise and Fall of Frontal Leucotomy,” in W. A. Whitelaw, ed., The Proceedings of
the 13th Annual History of Medicine Days (Calgary: University of Calgary, Faculty of Medicine, 2004), pp. 32–41.
6.

Yes, every neuroscientist in this book is named Antonio.

7. Gretchen Diefenbach, Donald Diefenbach, Alan Baumeister, and Mark West, “Portrayal of Lobotomy in the Popular Press:
1935–1960,” Journal of the History of the Neurosciences 8, no. 1 (1999): 60–69.
8. There was an odd conspiracy theory among music journalists in the 1970s that Tom Waits faked his alcoholism. Articles and
even entire books were written about this. While it’s highly likely Waits exaggerated his “hobo poet” persona for performance
value, he has openly commented on his alcoholism for years now. A recent example was in a 2006 interview with the Guardian,
where he said, “I had a problem—an alcohol problem, which a lot of people consider an occupational hazard. My wife saved my
life.”
See
Sean
O’Hagan,
“Off
Beat,”
Guardian,
October
28,
2006,
https://www.theguardian.com/music/2006/oct/29/popandrock1.
9.

Xenophon, Memorabilia, trans. Amy L. Bonnette (Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 2014), book 3, chap. 9, p. 5.

10. René Descartes, The Philosophical Works of Descartes, trans. Elizabeth S. Haldane and G. R. T. Ross (1637; repr. New
York: Cambridge University Press, 1970), 1:101.
11. Kant actually argued that reason was the root of morality and that the passions were more or less irrelevant. To Kant, it
didn’t matter how you felt, as long as you did the right thing. But we’ll get to Kant in chapter 6. See Immanuel Kant,
Groundwork to the Metaphysics of Morals, trans. James W. Ellington (1785; repr. Indianapolis, IN: Hackett Publishing
Company, Inc., 1993).
12. See Sigmund Freud, Civilization and Its Discontents, trans. James Strachey (1930; repr. New York: W. W. Norton and
Company, 2010).
13. I know this because I’m unfortunately part of this industry. I often joke that I’m a “self-hating self-help guru.” The fact is, I
think most of the industry is bullshit and that the only way really to improve your life is not by feeling good but, rather, by getting
better at feeling bad.
14. Great thinkers have cut the human mind into two or three pieces since forever. My “two brains” construct is just a summary
of the concepts of these earlier thinkers. Plato said that the soul has three parts: reason (Thinking Brain), appetites, and spirit
(Feeling Brain). David Hume said that all experiences are either impressions (Feeling Brain) or ideas (Thinking Brain). Freud had
the ego (Thinking Brain) and the id (Feeling Brain). Most recently, Daniel Kahneman and Amon Tversky had their two systems,
System 1 (Feeling Brain) and System 2 (Thinking Brain), or, as Kahneman calls them in his book Thinking: Fast and Slow (New
York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2011), the “fast” brain and the “slow” brain.
15. The “willpower as a muscle” theory of willpower, also known as “ego depletion,” is in hot water in the academic world at
the moment. A number of large studies have failed to replicate ego depletion. Some meta-analyses have found significant results
for it while others have not.
16.

Damasio, Descartes’ Error, pp. 128–30.

17.

Kahneman, Thinking: Fast and Slow, p. 31.

18. Jonathan Haidt, The Happiness Hypothesis: Finding Modern Truth in Ancient Wisdom (New York: Penguin Books, 2006),
pp. 2–5. Haidt says he got the elephant metaphor from the Buddha.
19. This silly Clown Car analogy actually works well for describing how toxic relationships between selfish narcissists form.
Anyone who is psychologically healthy, whose mind is not a Clown Car, will be able to hear a Clown Car coming from a mile
away and avoid contact with it as much as possible. But if you are a Clown Car yourself, your circus music will prevent you from
hearing the circus music of other Clown Cars. They will look and sound normal to you, and you will engage with them, thinking
that all the healthy Consciousness Cars are boring and uninteresting, thus entering toxic relationship after toxic relationship.
20. Some scholars believe that Plato wrote The Republic as a response to the political turbulence and violence that had recently
erupted in Athens. See The Republic of Plato, trans. Allan Bloom (New York: Basic Books, 1968), p. xi.
21. Christendom borrowed a lot of its moral philosophy from Plato and, unlike many ancient philosophers such as Epicurus and
Lucretius, preserved his works. According to Stephen Greenblatt, in The Swerve: How the World Became Modern (New York:
W. W. Norton and Company, 2012), early Christians held on to the ideas of Plato and Aristotle because the two believed in a soul
that was separate from the body. This idea of a separate soul gibed with Christian belief in an afterlife. It’s also the idea that
spawned the Classic Assumption.
22.

Pinker, The Better Angels of Our Nature, pp. 4–18. The comment about chopping off someone’s nuts is my own flourish, of

course.
23.

Ibid., pp. 482–88.

24. The oft-repeated motto of Woodstock and much of the free-love movement of the 1960s was “If it feels good, do it!” This
sentiment is the basis for a lot of New Age and countercultural movements today.
25. An excellent example of this self-indulgence in the name of spirituality is depicted in the Netflix original documentary Wild
Wild Country (2018), about the spiritual guru Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh (aka Osho) and his followers.
26. The best analysis I’ve seen of this tendency among twentieth-century spiritual movements to mistake indulging one’s
emotions for some greater spiritual awakening came from the brilliant author Ken Wilber. He called it the Pre/Trans Fallacy and
argued that because emotions are pre-rational, and spiritual awakenings are post-rational, people often mistake one for the other
—because they’re both nonrational. See Ken Wilber, Eye to Eye: The Quest for a New Paradigm (Boston, MA: Shambhala, Inc.,
1983), pp. 180–221.
27. A. Aldao, S. Nolen-Hoeksema, and S. Schweizer, “Emotion-Regulation Strategies Across Psychopathology: A Metaanalytic Review,” Clinical Psychology Review 30 (2010): 217–37.
28. Olga M. Slavin-Spenny, Jay L. Cohen, Lindsay M. Oberleitner, and Mark A. Lumley, “The Effects of Different Methods of
Emotional Disclosure: Differentiating Post-traumatic Growth from Stress Symptoms,” Journal of Clinical Psychology 67, no. 10
(2011): 993–1007.
29. This technique is known as the Premack principle, after psychologist David Premack, to describe the use of preferred
behaviors as rewards. See Jon E. Roeckelein, Dictionary of Theories, Laws, and Concepts in Psychology (Westport, CT:
Greenwood Press, 1998), p. 384.
30. For more about “starting small” with behavioral changes, see “The Do Something Principle,” from my previous book, The
Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck: A Counterintuitive Approach to Living a Good Life (New York: HarperOne, 2016), pp. 158–63.
31. One way to think about “guardrails” for your Consciousness Car is to develop implementation intentions, little if/then habits
that can unconsciously direct your behavior. See P. M. Gollwitzer and V. Brandstaetter, “Implementation Intentions and Effective
Goal Pursuit,” Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 73 (1997): 186–99.
32.

Damasio, Descartes’ Error, pp. 173–200.

33. In philosophy, this is known as Hume’s guillotine: you cannot derive an “ought” from an “is.” You cannot derive values
from facts. You cannot derive Feeling Brain knowledge from Thinking Brain knowledge. Hume’s guillotine has had philosophers
and scientists spinning in circles for centuries now. Some thinkers such as Sam Harris try to rebut it by pointing out that you can
have factual knowledge about values—e.g., if a hundred people believe suffering is wrong, then there is factual evidence of their
physical brain state about their beliefs about suffering being wrong. But the decision to take that physical representation as a
serious proxy for philosophical value, is itself a value that cannot be factually proven. Thus, the circle continues.
Chapter 3: Newton’s Laws of Emotion
1. Some of the biographical portions of this chapter are fictionalized.
2.

Newton actually wrote this in a journal as a teen. See James Gleick, Isaac Newton (New York: Vintage Books, 2003), p. 13.

3. Nina Mazar and Dan Ariely, “Dishonesty in Everyday Life and Its Policy Implications,” Journal of Public Policy and
Marketing 25, no. 1 (Spring 2006): 117–26.
4. Nina Mazar, On Amir, and Dan Ariely, “The Dishonesty of Honest People: A Theory of Self-Concept Maintenance,”
Journal of Marketing Research 45, no. 6 (December 2008): 633–44.
5. So, if you’re unfamiliar with Newton or don’t remember your high school science, Newton is the godfather of modern
physics. In terms of the impact of his discoveries, he is arguably the most influential thinker in world history. Among his many
discoveries, his core ideas about physics (inertia, conserved force, etc.) were described in his Three Laws of Motion. Here, I
present Newton’s Three Laws of Emotion, a play on his original discoveries.
6. See Michael Tomasello, A Natural History of Human Morality (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2016), pp. 78–
81.
7.

Damasio, Descartes’ Error, pp. 172–89.

8. This is why passive aggression is unhealthy for relationships: It doesn’t explicitly state where a person perceives a moral gap.
Instead, it simply opens up another gap. You could say the root of interpersonal conflict comes from differing perceptions of
moral gaps. You thought I was being an asshole. I thought I was being nice. Therefore, we have a conflict. But unless we openly
state our values and what we each perceived, we will never be able to equalize or restore hope to the relationship.
9. This is an example of “intrinsic motivation,” when the simple pleasure of doing an activity well, rather than for an external
reward, motivates you to continue doing that activity. See Edward L. Deci and Richard M. Ryan, Intrinsic Motivation and SelfDetermination in Human Behavior (New York: Plenum Press, 1985), pp. 5–9.
10.

You could say that negative emotions are rooted in a sense of losing control, while positive emotions are rooted in a sense

of having control.
11.

Tomasello, A Natural History of Human Morality, pp. 13–14.

12.

Robert Axelrod, The Evolution of Cooperation (New York: Basic Books, 1984), pp. 27–54.

13. This also comes from David Hume, “Of the Association of Ideas,” section 3 in An Enquiry Concerning Human
Understanding, ed. Eric Steinberg, 2nd ed. (1748; repr. Indianapolis, IN: Hackett Classics, 1993); and Hume, A Treatise of
Human Nature, Book 2: Of the Passions, parts 1 and 2 (Mineola, NY: Dover Philosophical Classics, 2003).
14. He didn’t invent the term, but I have to give credit to the psychologist Jordan Peterson’s interviews and lectures, as he has
greatly popularized the term value hierarchy in recent years.
15.

Manson, The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck, pp. 81–89.

16.

See Martin E. P. Seligman, Helplessness: On Depression, Development, and Death (New York: Times Books, 1975).

17. There is a third alternative: you can refuse to recognize the existence of a moral gap at all. But this is incredibly difficult to
do and requires a high degree of self-awareness, not to mention willingness to forgive others.
18. What’s interesting is that narcissists will even justify their pain with claims of their superiority. Ever hear the phrase “They
hate me because they’re envious”? Or “They attack me because they’re afraid of me”? Or “They just don’t want to admit that I’m
better than they are”? The Feeling Brain merely flips its self-worth on its head: we’re not being harmed because we suck; we’re
being harmed because we’re great! So, the narcissist goes from feeling that the self deserves nothing to feeling that the self
deserves everything.
19. Ironically, he was kind of right. The Treaty of Versailles decimated Germany economically and was responsible for many
of the internal struggles that allowed Hitler to rise to power. His “they hate us because we’re so great” style of messaging clearly
resonated with the beleaguered German population.
20. I am referring to Elliot Rodger, who uploaded his creepy YouTube video “Elliot Rodger’s Retribution” just before driving
to the sorority house.
21. Self-worth is an illusion because all values are illusory and based on faith (see chapter 4 for further discussion) and because
the self is itself an illusion. For a discussion of this second idea, see Sam Harris, Waking Up: A Guide to Spirituality Without
Religion (New York: Simon and Schuster, 2014), pp. 81–116.
22. David Foster Wallace talked about this “default setting” of consciousness in his wonderful speech “This Is Water.” See
David F. Wallace, This Is Water: Some Thoughts, Delivered on a Significant Occasion, About Living a Compassionate Life (New
York: Little, Brown and Company, 2009), pp. 44–45.
23. This is popularly known as the Dunning-Kruger effect, named for the researchers who discovered it. See Justin Kruger and
David Dunning, “Unskilled and Unaware of It: How Difficulties in Recognizing One’s Own Incompetence Lead to Inflated SelfAssessments,” Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 77, no. 6 (1999): 1121–34.
24. Max H. Bazerman and Ann E. Tenbrunsel, Blind Spots: Why We Fail to Do What’s Right and What to Do About It
(Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2011).
25. This is known as the false consensus effect. See Thomas Gilovich, “Differential Construal and the False Consensus Effect,”
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 59, no. 4 (1990): 623–34.
26. Shout out to the late TV painter Bob Ross (RIP), who used to say, “There’s no such thing as mistakes, just happy
accidents.”
27. This is known as the actor-observer bias, and it explains why everyone is an asshole. See Edward Jones and Richard
Nisbett, The Actor and the Observer: Divergent Perceptions of the Causes of Behavior (New York: General Learning Press,
1971).
28. Basically, the more pain we experience, the larger the moral gap. And the larger the moral gap, the more we dehumanize
ourselves and/or others. And the more we dehumanize ourselves and/or others, the more easily we justify causing suffering to
ourselves or others.
29. The healthy response here would be (c), “some boys are shit,” but when we experience extreme pain, our Feeling Brains
generate intense feelings about entire categories of experience and are not able to make those distinctions.
30. Obviously, there are a lot of variables at work here: the girl’s previously held values, her self-worth, the nature of the
breakup, her ability to achieve intimacy, her age, ethnic and cultural values, and so on.
31. A 2016 computer model study found that there are six types of stories: rise (rags to riches), fall (riches to rags), rise and
then fall (Icarus), fall and then rise (man in a hole), rise and then fall and then rise (Cinderella), fall and then rise and then fall
(Oedipus). These are all essentially permutations of the same good/bad experience, plus good/bad deserving. See Adrienne
LaFrance, “The Six Main Arcs in Storytelling, as Identified by an A.I.,” The Atlantic, July 12, 2016,
https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2016/07/the-six-main-arcs-in-storytelling-identified-by-a-computer/490733/.
32.

The field of psychology is in the midst of a “replicability crisis,” that is, a large percentage of its major findings are failing

to be replicated in further experiments. See Ed Yong, “Psychology’s Replication Crisis Is Running Out of Excuses,” The Atlantic,
November 18, 2018, https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2018/11/psychologys-replication-crisis-real/576223/.
33. Division of Violence Prevention, “The Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACE) Study,” National Center for Injury
Prevention and Control, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA, May 2014,
https://www.cdc.gov/violenceprevention/acestudy/index.html.
34. Real-life Newton was actually a raging, vindictive asshole. And yes, he was a loner, too. He apparently died a virgin. And
records suggest that he was probably quite proud of that fact.
35. This is what Freud incorrectly identified as repression. He believed that we spend our lives repressing our painful childhood
memories, and by bringing them back into consciousness, we liberate the negative emotions bundled up inside ourselves. In fact,
it turns out that remembering past traumas doesn’t provide much benefit. Indeed, the most effective therapies today focus not so
much on the past as on learning to manage future emotions.
36. People often mistake our core values for our personality, and vice versa. Personality is a fairly immutable thing. According
to the “Big Five” personality model, one’s personality consists of five basic traits: extraversion, conscientiousness, agreeableness,
neuroticism, and openness to new experience. Our core values are judgments made early in life, based partly on personality. For
instance, I might be highly open to new experiences, which thus inspires me to value exploration and curiosity from an early age.
This early value will then play out in later experiences and create values related to it. Core values are difficult to dig up and
change. Personality cannot be changed much, if at all. For more on the “Big Five” personality model, see Thomas A. Widiger,
ed., The Oxford Handbook of the Five Factor Model (New York: Oxford University Press, 2017).
37. William Swann, Peter Rentfrow, and Jennifer Sellers, “Self-verification: The Search for Coherence,” Handbook of Self and
Identity (New York: Guilford Press, 2003), pp. 367–83.
38. This is the law-of-attraction bullshit that’s been around in the self-help industry for ages. For a thorough takedown of this
type of nonsense, see Mark Manson, “The Staggering Bullshit of ‘The Secret,’” MarkManson.net, February 26, 2015,
https://markmanson.net/the-secret.
39. The ability to remember past experiences and project future experiences occurs only with the development of the prefrontal
cortex (the neurological name for the Thinking Brain). See Y. Yang and A. Raine, “Prefrontal Structural and Functional Brain
Imaging Findings in Antisocial, Violent, and Psychopathic Individuals: A Meta-analysis,” Psychiatry Research 174, no. 2
(November 2009): 81–88.
40.

Jocko Willink, Discipline Equals Freedom: Field Manual (New York: St. Martin’s Press, 2017), pp. 4–6.

41. Martin Lea and Steve Duck, “A Model for the Role of Similarity of Values in Friendship Development,” British Journal of
Social Psychology 21, no. 4 (November 1982): 301–10.
42. This metaphor essentially says that the more we value something, the more unwilling we are to question or change that
value, and therefore the more painful it is when that value fails us. It’s like if you think about the different degrees of pain
between the death of a parent versus the death of an acquaintance, or how emotional you get when someone insults or questions
one of your favorite music groups from when you were a kid versus when you’re an adult.
43. Freud called this the “narcissism of the slight difference,” and observed that it is usually groups of people with the most in
common who feel the most hatred for one another. See Sigmund Freud, Civilization and Its Discontents, trans. David McLintock
(1941; repr. New York: Penguin Books, 2002), pp. 50–51.
44.

Tomasello, A Natural History of Human Morality, pp. 85–93.

45. This idea is known as “cultural geography.” For a fascinating discussion, see Jared Diamond, Guns, Germs and Steel: The
Fates of Human Societies (New York: W. W. Norton and Company, 1997).
46.

Tomasello, A Natural History of Human Morality, pp. 114–15.

47.

Or, as military theorist Carl von Clausewitz famously put it, “War is the continuation of politics by other means.”

48. Real Isaac Newton’s Laws of Motion also sat collecting dust for about twenty years before he dug them out and showed
them to anyone.
Chapter 4: How to Make All Your Dreams Come True
1. Gustave Le Bon, The Crowd: A Study of the Popular Mind (1896; repr. New York: Dover Publications, 2002), p. 14.
2. Jonathan Haidt calls this phenomenon the “hive hypothesis.” See Jonathan Haidt, The Righteous Mind: Why Good People
Are Divided by Politics and Religion (New York: Vintage Books, 2012), pp. 261–70.
3.

Le Bon, The Crowd, pp. 24–29.

4. Barry Schwartz and Andrew Ward, “Doing Better but Feeling Worse: The Paradox of Choice,” in P. Alex Linley and
Stephen Joseph, Positive Psychology in Practice (Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley and Sons, 2004), pp. 86–103.
5. Adolescent brains continue to develop well into their twenties, particularly the parts of the brain responsible for executive
functioning. See S. B. Johnson, R. W. Blum, and J. N. Giedd, “Adolescent Maturity and the Brain: The Promise and Pitfalls of

Neuroscience Research in Adolescent Health Policy,” Journal of Adolescent Health: Official Publication of the Society for
Adolescent Medicine 45, no. 3 (2009): 216–21.
6. S. Choudhury, S. J. Blakemore, and T. Charman, “Social Cognitive Development During Adolescence,” Social Cognitive
and Affective Neuroscience 1, no. 3 (2006): 165–74.
7. This work in identity definition is the most important project of adolescents and young adults. See Erik H. Erikson,
Childhood and Society (New York: W. W. Norton and Company, 1963), pp. 261–65.
8. My guess is that people like LaRouche aren’t consciously exploitative. It’s more likely that LaRouche himself was
psychologically stuck at an adolescent level of maturity and therefore pursued adolescent causes and appealed to other lost
adolescents. See chapter 6.
9. The dialogue here is approximate based on my recollection. It was fifteen years ago, so obviously I don’t remember exactly
what was said.
10. I decided to look up where Sagan said this, and it turns out that, like most quotes found on the internet, someone else had
said it, and fifty years before Sagan. Professor Walter Kotschnig was apparently the first one to be published saying it, in 1940.
See https://quoteinvestigator.com/2014/04/13 /open-mind/.
11.

Eric Hoffer, The True Believer: Thoughts on the Nature of Mass Movements (New York: Harper Perennial, 1951), pp. 3–11.

12.

Ibid., pp. 16–21.

13.

Ibid., pp. 26–45.

14. What’s interesting about Jesus is that the historical record implies that he likely began as a political extremist, attempting to
lead an uprising against the Roman Empire’s occupation of Israel. It was after his death that his ideological religion was
transmuted into a more spiritual religion. See Reza Aslan, Zealot: The Life and Times of Jesus of Nazareth (New York: Random
House Books, 2013).
15. This notion comes from Karl Popper’s ideas about falsifiability. Popper, building on the work of David Hume, basically
said that no matter how many times something has happened in the past, it can never logically be proven that it will happen again
in the future. Even though the sun has risen in the east and set in the west every day for thousands of years and no one has ever
had a contrary experience, this does not prove that the sun will rise in the east tomorrow. All it does is tell us the overwhelming
probability of the sun rising in the east.
Popper argued that the only empirical truth we can ever know is not via experimentation but, rather, falsifiability. Nothing
can ever be proven. Things can only be disproven. Therefore, even something as mundane and obvious as the sun rising in the
east and setting in the west is still believed on some degree of faith, even though it is almost entirely certain always to happen.
Popper’s ideas are important because they logically demonstrate that even scientific facts rely on some modicum of faith. You
can do an experiment a million times and get the same result every time, but that does not prove it will happen the million and
first time. At some point, we choose to rely on the belief that it will continue to happen once its results are so statistically
significant that it’d be insane not to believe them.
For more on Popper’s ideas about falsification, see Karl Popper, The Logic of Scientific Discovery (1959; repr. New York:
Routledge Classics, 1992). What I find interesting is that mental illnesses that induce delusions, hallucinations, and such may,
fundamentally, be dysfunctions of faith. Most of us take it for granted that the sun will rise in the east and that things fall to the
ground at a certain rate and that we’re not just going to float away because gravity decided to take a coffee break. But a mind that
struggles to build and maintain faith in anything would potentially be tortured by these possibilities all the time, thus making it go
mad.
16. Faith also assumes that your shit is real and that you aren’t just a brain in a vat merely imagining all your sense perceptions
—a favorite trope of philosophers. For a fun dive into whether you can ever actually know if anything exists, check out René
Descartes’s Meditations on First Philosophy.
17. The word atheist can signify a number of things. Here, I’m simply making the point that we all must buy into beliefs and
values based on faith, even if they’re not supernatural beliefs and values. See John Gray, Seven Types of Atheism (New York:
Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2018).
18. David Hume, A Treatise of Human Nature. Hume writes that “all knowledge degenerates into probability; and this
probability is greater or less, according to our experience of the veracity or deceitfulness of our understanding, and according to
the simplicity or intricacy of the question” (1739, part 4, section 1).
19. A God Value is not the same thing as Blaise Pascal’s “God-shaped hole.” Pascal believed that because man’s desires were
insatiable, only something infinite could ever satiate him—that infinite thing being God. A God Value is different in that it is
simply the top of one’s value hierarchy. You might feel miserable and empty and still have a God Value. In fact, the cause of
your misery and emptiness is likely your chosen God Value.
20. For further discussion on how superficial God Values such as money affect your life, see Mark Manson, “How We Judge
Others Is How We Judge Ourselves,” MarkManson.net, January 9, 2014, https://markmanson.net/how-we-judge-others.
21. Like money or government or ethnicity, the “self” is also an arbitrary mental construct based on faith. There is no proof that
your experience of “you” actually exists. It is merely the nexus of conscious experience, an interconnection of sense and

sensibility. See Derek Parfit, Reasons and Persons (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1984), pp. 199–280.
22. There are a number of ways to describe unhealthy forms of attachment to another person, but I went with the term
codependence because of its widespread mainstream usage. The word comes from Alcoholics Anonymous (AA).
Alcoholics noticed that in the same way that they were addicted to the bottle, their friends and family were seemingly
addicted to supporting and caring for them in their addiction. The alcoholics were dependent on alcohol to feel good and normal,
and these friends and family members who were “codependent,” as they used the alcoholics’ addiction to feel good and normal as
well. Codependency has since found more widespread use—basically, anyone who becomes “addicted” to supporting or
receiving validation from another person can be described as codependent.
Codependence is a strange form of worship, where you put a person on a pedestal and make him the center of your world, the
basis of your thoughts and feelings, and the root of your self-esteem. In other words, you make the other person your God Value.
This, unfortunately, leads to extremely destructive relationships. See Melody Beattie, Codependent No More: How to Stop
Controlling Others and Care for Yourself (Center City, MN: Hazelden Publishing, 1986); and Timmen L. Cermak, MD,
Diagnosing and Treating Co-Dependence: A Guide for Professionals Who Work with Chemical Dependents, Their Spouses, and
Children (Center City, MN: Hazelden Publishing, 1998).
23.

See discussion of “Hume’s guillotine,” from note 33 in chapter 2.

24. The Black Death killed one hundred million to two hundred million people in Europe in the fourteenth century, reducing the
population by anywhere from 30 to 60 percent.
25. This refers to the infamous Children’s Crusade of 1212. After multiple failed Crusades by Christians to retake the Holy
Land from the Muslims, tens of thousands of children journeyed to Italy to volunteer to go to the Holy Land and convert Muslims
peacefully. A charismatic leader promised the children that the sea would part once they reached the Mediterranean, allowing
them to walk to Jerusalem on foot. Spoiler alert: it didn’t. Instead, merchant ships gathered up the children and took them across
the sea to Tunisia, where most of them were sold into slavery.
26. Interestingly, you could say that money was invented as a way to tally and track moral gaps between people. We invented
the concept of debt to justify our moral gaps—I did you this favor, so now you owe me something in return—and money was
invented as a way of tracking and managing debt across a society. This is known as the “credit theory” of money, and it was first
proposed by Alfred Mitchell Innes back in 1913, in a journal article titled “What Is Money?” For a nice overview of Mitchell
Innes and the credit theory of money, see David Graeber, Debt: The First 5,000 Years, Updated and Expanded Edition (2011;
repr. Brooklyn, NY: Melville House Publishing, 2014), pp. 46–52. For an interesting discussion of the importance of debt in
human society, see Margaret Atwood, Payback: Debt and the Shadow Side of Wealth (Berkeley, CA: House of Anansi Press,
2007).
27. Okay, the ethnicities thing is a bit controversial. There are minor biological differences between populations with different
ancestries, but differentiating among people based on those differences is also an arbitrary, faith-based construct. For instance,
who is to say that all green-eyed people aren’t their own ethnicity? That’s right. Nobody. Yet, if some king had decided hundreds
of years ago that green-eyed people were a different race that deserved to be treated terribly, we’d likely be mired in political
issues around “eye-ism” today.
28.

You know, like what I’m doing with this book.

29. It’s probably worth noting again that there’s a replicability crisis going on in the social sciences. Many of the major
“findings” in psychology, economics, and even medicine are not able to be replicated consistently. So, even if we could easily
handle the complexity of measuring human populations, it would still be incredibly difficult to find consistent, empirical evidence
that one variable had an outweighed influence over another. See Yong, “Psychology’s Replication Crisis Is Running Out of
Excuses.”
30. All my life, I’ve been fascinated by how athletes go from heroes to villains and back to heroes again. Tiger Woods, Kobe
Bryant, Michael Jordan, and Andre Agassi have all been demigods in people’s minds. Then, one unseemly revelation caused each
to become a pariah. This relates back to what I said in chapter 3 about how the superiority/inferiority of the person can flip-flop
easily because what remains the same is the magnitude of the moral gap. With someone like Kobe Bryant, whether he’s a hero or
a villain, what remains the same is the intensity of our emotional reaction to him. And that intensity is caused by the size of the
moral gap that is felt.
31. I have to give a shout-out to Yuval Noah Harari and his brilliant book Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind (New York:
HarperCollins, 2015) for the description of governments, financial institutions, and other social structures as mythic systems that
exist thanks only to the shared beliefs of a population. Harari synthesized many of these ideas first, and I’m just riffing on him.
The whole book is worth a read.
32.

Pair bonding and reciprocal altruism are two evolutionary strategies that emerge in consciousness as emotional attachment.

33. The definition of “spiritual experience” I’m most fond of is that it’s a trans-egoic experience—meaning, your identity or
sense of “self” transcends your body and consciousness and expands to include all perceived reality. Trans-egoic experiences can
be achieved in a variety of ways: psychedelic drugs, intense meditation for long periods, and moments of extreme love and
passion. In these heightened states, you can “meld” into your partner, feeling as though you are the same being, thus temporarily
achieving a trans-egoic state. This “melding” with someone else (or the universe) is why spiritual experiences are often perceived
as “love,” as they are both a surrendering of one’s ego-identity and unconditional acceptance of some greater entity. For a cool

explanation of this kind of stuff based on Jungian psychology, see Ken Wilber, No Boundary: Eastern and Western Approaches
to Personal Growth (1979; repr. Boston, MA: Shambhala, 2001).
34. As countries industrialize, their religiosity drops precipitously. See Pippa Norris and Ronald Inglehart, Sacred and Secular:
Religion and Politics Worldwide, 2nd ed. (2004; repr. New York: Cambridge University Press, 2011), pp. 53–82.
35. René Girard, Things Hidden Since the Foundation of the World, trans. Stephen Bann and Michael Metteer (repr. 1978;
Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press, 1987), pp. 23–30.
36. Similar to science being a religion in which we worship evidence, humanism could be seen as worshipping the “inbetweenism” of all people—that there are no inherently good or evil people. As Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn put it, “The line dividing
good and evil cuts through the heart of every human being.”
37.

Sadly, these conspiracy theories are prominent in the United States today.

38. I’m being a bit dramatic, but human sacrifice did occur in pretty much every major ancient and prehistoric civilization we
know of. See Nigel Davies, Human Sacrifice in History and Today (New York: Hippocrene Books, 1988).
39. For an interesting discussion of innate guilt and the role of human sacrifice, see Ernest Becker, Escape from Evil (New
York: Freedom Press, 1985).
40.

Freud, Civilization and Its Discontents, pp. 14–15.

41.

Ibid., p. 18.

42.

Manson, The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck, pp. 23–29.

43.

E. O. Wilson, On Human Nature (1978; repr. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2004), pp. 169–92.

44. Reasoning skills break down when one is confronted with emotionally charged issues (i.e., issues that touch our highest
values). See Vladimíra Čavojová, Jakub Šrol, and Magdalena Adamus, “My Point Is Valid; Yours Is Not: My-Side Bias in
Reasoning About Abortion,” Journal of Cognitive Psychology 30, no. 7 (2018): 656–69.
45. Actually, you may suck even more. Research shows that the more well informed and educated someone is, the more
politically polarized his opinions. See T. Palfrey and K. Poole, “The Relationship Between Information, Ideology, and Voting
Behavior,” American Journal of Political Science 31, no. 3 (1987): 511–30.
46. This idea was first published in F. T. Cloak Jr., “Is a Cultural Ethology Possible?” Human Ecology 3, no. 3 (1975): 161–82.
For a less academic discussion, see Aaron Lynch, Thought Contagion: How Beliefs Spread Through Society (New York: Basic
Books, 1996), pp. 97–134.
Chapter 5: Hope Is Fucked
1. Nietzsche first announced the death of God in 1882, in his book The Gay Science, but the quote is most famously associated
with Thus Spoke Zarathustra, which was released in four parts from 1883 to 1885. After the third part, all publishers refused to
have anything to do with the project, and Nietzsche therefore had to scrape together the money to publish the fourth part himself.
That’s the book that sold fewer than forty copies. See Sue Prideaux, I Am Dynamite!: A Life of Nietzsche (New York: Tim
Duggan Books, 2018), pp. 256–60.
2. Everything spoken by Nietzsche in this chapter is an actual line lifted from his work. This one comes from F. Nietzsche,
Beyond Good and Evil, trans. Walter Kaufmann (1887; repr. New York: Vintage Books, 1963), p. 92.
3. The story of Nietzsche with Meta in this chapter is loosely adapted from his summers with a handful of women (the others
being Helen Zimmern and Resa von Schirnhofer) over 1886–87. See Julian Young, Friedrich Nietzsche: A Philosophical
Biography (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2010), pp. 388–400.
4.

Friedrich Nietzsche, Ecce Homo, trans. by R. J. Hollingdale (1890; repr. New York: Penguin Classics, 1979), p. 39.

5. Some anthropologists have gone so far as to call agriculture, because of its inevitable tendency to create inequality and social
stratification, “the worst mistake in the history of the human race.” See Jared Diamond’s famous essay “The Worst Mistake in the
History of the Human Race,” Discover, May 1987, http://discovermagazine.com/1987/may/02-the-worst-mistake-in-the-historyof-the-human-race.
6. Nietzsche’s initial description of master and slave moralities comes from Beyond Good and Evil, pp. 204–37. He expounds
on each morality further in The Genealogy of Morality (1887). The second essay in The Genealogy of Morality (New York:
Penguin Classics, 2014) is where I was first exposed to the concept of “the moral gap” discussed in chapter 3. In that essay,
Nietzsche argues that each of our individual moralities is based on our sense of debt.
7.

Haidt, The Righteous Mind, pp. 182–89.

8.

Richard Dawkins, The Selfish Gene: 30th Anniversary Edition (Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, 2006), pp. 189–200.

9. It’s interesting that most polytheistic religions haven’t had this obsession with conversion that the monotheistic religions
have had. The Greeks and Romans were more than happy to let the indigenous cultures follow their own beliefs. It wasn’t until
slave morality that the religious Crusades began. This is probably because a slave morality religion cannot abide cultures that
hold different beliefs. Slave moralities require the world to be equal—and to be equal, you cannot be different. Therefore, those

other cultures had to be converted. This is the paradoxical tyranny of any extremist left-wing belief system. When equality
becomes one’s God Value, differences in belief cannot be abided. And the only way to destroy difference in belief is through
totalitarianism.
10.

See Pinker, Enlightenment Now, pp. 7–28.

11. My biggest qualm with Pinker’s book is that he conflates the scientific revolution with the philosophical Enlightenment.
The scientific revolution predates the Enlightenment and is independent of the latter’s humanistic beliefs. This is why I make a
point of stressing that science, and not necessarily Enlightenment ideologies, is the best thing to have happened in human history.
12. Estimates of GDP per capita growth done by author with data from Angus Maddison, The World Economy: A Millennial
Perspective, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), 2006, p. 30.
13. There is evidence suggesting that populations become more religious immediately after natural disasters. See Jeanet Sinding
Bentzen, “Acts of God? Religiosity and Natural Disasters Across Subnational World Districts,” University of Copenhagen
Department of Economics Discussion Paper No. 15-06, 2015, http://web.econ.ku.dk/bentzen/ActsofGodBentzen.pdf.
14. There’s no written record of Nietzsche’s thoughts on communism, but he surely must have been aware of it. And given his
disgust for slave morality in general, he almost certainly loathed it. His beliefs in this regard have long been mistaken for being a
precursor to Nazism. But Nietzsche hated the German nationalism burgeoning during his lifetime and had a falling out with a
number of friends and family (most notably Wagner) because of it.
Nietzsche’s own sister and brother-in-law were ardent nationalists and anti-Semites. He found both beliefs to be stupid and
offensive, and said as much to them. In fact, his globalist view of the world was rare and radical at the time. He strictly believed
in the value of a person’s deeds, nothing else—no system, no race, no nationality. When his sister told him that she and her
husband were moving to Paraguay to start a New Germania, where people could breed a society from pure German blood, he is
said to have laughed in her face so hard that she didn’t speak to him again for years.
It’s tragic, then (and ironic), that his work would be co-opted and warped by Nazi ideology after his death. Sue Prideaux
gives a stirring account of how his philosophy came to be corrupted, and the slow, fifty-year rehabilitation it went through to get
the reading it deserves. See Prideaux, I Am Dynamite!, pp. 346–81.
15. Buddhist philosophy would describe these cycles of hope creation and destruction as samsara, which is generated and
perpetuated due to our attachments to worldly, impermanent values. The Buddha taught that the fundamental nature of our
psychology is dukkha, a concept loosely translated as “craving.” He warned that human cravings can never be satiated, and that
we generate suffering in our constant quest to fulfill those cravings. The idea of relinquishing hope is very much in line with the
Buddhist idea of reaching nirvana, or letting go of all psychological attachments or cravings.
16.

Nietzsche, Ecce Homo, pp. 96–104.

17.

The Pandora’s Box myth, as told in this section, comes from Hesiod’s Work and Days, lines 560–612.

18. This is kind of a joke, but also kind of not. For the horrific origins of matrimony in the ancient world, see Stephanie Coontz,
Marriage, a History: How Love Conquered Marriage (New York: Penguin Books, 2006), pp. 70–86.
19. Apparently, the Greek word Hesiod used for “hope” could also be translated as “deceptive expectation.” Thus, there has
always been a less popular, pessimistic interpretation of the myth based on the idea that hope can also lead to destruction. See
Franco Montanari, Antonios Rengakos, and Christos Tsagalis, Brill’s Companion to Hesiod (Leiden, Netherlands: Brill
Publishers, 2009), p. 77.
20.

Nietzsche, Ecce Homo, pp. 37–38.

21.
74.

Friedrich Nietzsche, The Gay Science, trans. Walter Kaufmann (1882; repr. New York: Vintage Books, 1974), §341: 273–

22.

The beginning of his rant about God being dead comes from the “Madman” section of ibid., §125: 181–82.

23. This “impassioned and lengthy” speech to cows near Lake Silvaplana actually happened, according to Meta von Salis. It
was possibly one of Nietzsche’s first episodes of psychosis, which began to surface around this time. See Young, Friedrich
Nietzsche, p. 432.
24. The rest of Nietzsche’s lines in this chapter come from Friedrich Nietzsche, Thus Spoke Zarathustra, trans. R. J.
Hollingdale (1883; repr. New York: Penguin Classics, 2003), p. 43. “[H]e is an overture to something greater” is my own
interpretation of Nietzsche’s idea of the Übermensch, or “superman.” The original text reads, “[H]e is a going-across,” where
there “going-across” is a metaphor for man’s evolution into becoming the Übermensch—that is, into something greater.
Chapter 6: The Formula of Humanity
1. M. Currey, Daily Routines: How Artists Work (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2013), pp. 81–82.
2. Immanuel Kant, The Metaphysics of Morals, ed. Lara Denis, trans. Mary Gregor (1797; repr. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge
University Press. 2017), p. 34.
3. In his 1795 essay “Towards Perpetual Peace,” Kant proposed a world governing body. See Immanuel Kant, Perpetual Peace
and Other Essays, trans. Ted Humphrey (1795; repr. Indianapolis, IN: Hackett Publishing Company, 1983), pp. 107–44.

4. S. Palmquist, “The Kantian Grounding of Einstein’s Worldview: (I) The Early Influence of Kant’s System of Perspectives,”
Polish Journal of Philosophy 4, no. 1 (2010): 45–64.
5. Granted, he suggested it hypothetically. Kant didn’t believe that animals had will or reason, but he did say that if animals
were capable of will and reason, they should be afforded the same rights as humans. Today, there’s a strong argument that many
animals are capable of will and reason. For a discussion of this, see Christine M. Korsgaard, “A Kantian Case for Animal
Rights,” in Animal Law: Developments and Perspectives in the 21st Century, ed. Margot Michael, Daniela Kühne, and Julia
Hänni (Zurich: Dike Verlag, 2012), pp. 3–27.
6. Hannah Ginsborg, “Kant’s Aesthetics and Teleology,” The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, ed. Edward N. Zalta, 2014,
https://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2014/entries/kant-aesthetics.
7. The dispute was between “rationalists” and “empiricists,” and the book was Kant’s most famous work, Critique of Pure
Reason.
8. Kant sought to establish an entire ethical system with rationality as its God Value. I won’t get into the intricacies of Kantian
ethics here, as there are many flaws in Kant’s system. For this chapter, I have merely plucked what I believe to be the most useful
principle and conclusion from Kant’s ethics: the Formula of Humanity.
9. There’s a subtle contradiction here. Kant sought to develop a value system that existed outside the subjective judgments of
the Feeling Brain. Yet the desire to build a value system on reason alone is itself a subjective judgment made by the Feeling
Brain. Put another way, couldn’t you say that Kant’s desire to create a value system that transcended the confines of religion was
itself a religion? This was Nietzsche’s criticism of Kant. He thought Kant was a fucking joke. He found Kant’s ethical system
absurd and his belief that he had transcended faith-based subjectivity naïve at best and outright narcissistic at worst. Therefore, it
will strike readers with a background in philosophy as strange that I’m relying on the two of them so much for my book’s
argument. But I don’t see this as much of an issue. I think that each man got something right that the other missed. Nietzsche got
it right that all human beliefs are inherently imprisoned by our own perspectives and are, therefore, faith-based. Kant got it right
that some value systems produce better and more logical results than others due to their potentially universal desirability. So,
technically, yes, Kant’s ethical system is another form of faith-based religion. But I also think that in the same way that science,
and its belief in putting one’s faith in what has the most evidence, produces the best belief systems, Kant stumbled upon the best
basis for creating value systems—that is, one should value that which perceives value above all else: consciousness.
10. In terms of minimizing fucks given, Kant’s lifestyle choices would probably make him the world champion. See Manson,
The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck, pp. 15–19.
11. This statement could be interpreted in a number of ways. The first interpretation is that Kant managed to step outside the
subjective space of Feeling Brain value judgments to create a universally applicable value system. Philosophers two hundred fifty
years later are still arguing about whether he accomplished this—most say he didn’t. (See note 9 in this chapter for my take.)
The second interpretation is that Kant ushered in an age of nonsupernatural views of morality—the belief that morality could
be deduced outside spiritual religions. This is absolutely true. Kant set the stage for a scientifically pursued moral philosophy that
continues today.
The third interpretation of this statement is that I’m hyping the fuck out of Kant to keep people interested in the chapter. This
is also absolutely true.
12. It is important to point out that I will be applying Kant’s ideas in this chapter in ways he never applied them himself. The
chapter is a strange three-way marriage of Kantian ethics, developmental psychology, and virtue theory. If that doesn’t get your
nipples hard, I don’t know what will.
13. The developmental framework in this chapter is derived from (and simplifies) the work of Jean Piaget, Lawrence Kohlberg,
Robert Kegan, Erik Erikson, Søren Kierkegaard, and others. In Kegan’s model, my definition of “childhood” maps his Stages 1
and 2 (Impulsive and Imperial), my definition of “adolescence” maps his Stages 3 and 4 (Interpersonal and Institutional), and my
“adulthood” maps his Stage 5 (Interindividual). For more on Kegan’s model, see R. Kegan, The Evolving Self: Problem and
Process in Human Development (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1982). In Kohlberg’s model, my “childhood” maps
his Preconventional stage of moral development (Obedience and Punishment orientation and Instrumental orientations), my
“adolescence” maps his Conventional stage of moral development (Good Boy/Nice Girl and Law-and-Order orientations), and
my “adulthood” maps his Postconventional stage of moral development (Social Contract and Universal-Ethical-Principle
orientations). For more on Kohlberg’s model, see L. Kohlberg, “Stages of Moral Development,” Moral Education 1, no. 51
(1971): 23–92. In Piaget’s model, my “childhood” maps his Sensorimotor and Preoperational stages, my “adolescence” maps his
Concrete Operational stage, and my “adulthood” loosely maps his later Formal Operational stage. For more about Piaget’s theory
of psychological development, see J. Piaget, “Piaget’s Theory,” Piaget and His School (Berlin and Heidelberg: Springer, 1976),
pp. 11–23.
14.
13.

The development of rules and roles occurs in Piaget’s Concrete Operational stage and Kegan’s Interpersonal stage. See note

15.

Kegan, The Evolving Self, pp. 133–60.

16. Children do not develop what is called the “theory of mind” until ages three to five. Theory of mind is said to be present
when someone is able to understand that other people have conscious thoughts and behaviors independent of them. Theory of
mind is necessary for empathy and most social interactions—it’s how you understand someone else’s perspective and thinking

process. Children who struggle to develop theory of mind are often diagnosed as being on the autism spectrum or having
schizophrenia, ADHD, or some other problem. See B. Korkmaz, “Theory of Mind and Neurodevelopmental Disorders in
Childhood,” Pediatric Research 69 (2011): 101R–8R.
17. The philosopher Ken Wilber has a wonderful phrase to describe this process of psychological development. He says that
later developmental stages “transcend and include” previous stages. So, an adolescent still has his pleasure- and pain-based
values, but higher-level values based on rules and roles supersede the lower, childish values. We all still like ice cream, even once
we’re adults. The difference is the adult is able to prioritize higher, abstract values such as honesty or prudence over his love of
ice cream; a child is not. See K. Wilber, Sex, Ecology, Spirituality: The Spirit of Evolution (Boston, MA: Shambhala, 2000), pp.
59–61.
18. Recall from Emo Newton’s Second and Third Laws that stronger, sturdier identities grant us more emotional stability in the
face of adversity. One reason that children are so emotionally volatile is because their understanding of themselves is flimsy and
superficial, so unexpected or painful events affect them that much more.
19. Teenagers are obsessively focused on what their peers think of them because they are cobbling together identities for
themselves based on social rules and roles. See Erikson, Childhood and Society, pp. 260–66; and Kegan, The Evolving Self, pp.
184–220.
20. This is where I first begin to merge Kant’s moral system with developmental theory. Treating people as means rather than
ends is representative of Stages 2–4 in Kohlberg’s theory of moral development.
21.

Albert Camus put it well when he said, “You will never be happy if you continue to search for what happiness consists of.”

22.

Again, fusing Kohlberg’s Stages 5 and 6 with Kant’s “thing in itself” requirement for moral universalization.

23. According to Kohlberg’s model of moral development, by age thirty-six, 89 percent of the population has achieved the
adolescent stage of moral reasoning; only 13 percent ever achieve the adult stage. See L. Kohlberg, The Measurement of Moral
Judgment (Cambridge, MA: Cambridge University Press, 1987).
24. Just as the adolescent bargains with other people, she bargains with future (or past) selves in a similar manner. This idea
that our future and past selves are independent individuals separate from our present-moment perceptions is put forth by Derek
Parfit in Reasons and Persons, pp. 199–244.
25. Remember, we derive our self-esteem from how well we live up to our values (or how well we reinforce the narratives of
our identity). An adult develops values based on abstract principles (virtues) and will derive his self-esteem from how well he
adheres to those principles.
26. We all require a “Goldilocks” amount of pain to mature and develop. Too much pain traumatizes us—our Feeling Brain
becomes unrealistically fearful of the world, preventing any further growth or experience. Too little pain, and we become entitled
narcissists, falsely believing the world can (and should!) revolve around our desires. But if we get the pain just right, then we
learn that (a) our current values are failing us, and (b) we have the power and ability to transcend those values and create newer,
higher-level, more-encompassing values. We learn that it’s better to have compassion for everyone rather than just our friends,
that it’s better to be honest in all situations rather than simply the situations that help us, and that it’s better to maintain humility,
even when we’re confident in our own rightness.
27. In chapter 3, we learned that abuse and trauma generate low self-esteem, narcissism, and a self-loathing identity. These
inhibit our ability to develop higher-level, abstract values because the pain of failure is constant and too intense—the child must
spend all her time and energy escaping it. Growth requires engaging the pain, as we’ll see in chapter 7.
28. See J. Haidt and G. Lukianoff, The Coddling of the American Mind: How Good Intentions and Bad Ideas Are Setting Up a
Generation for Failure (New York: Penguin Press, 2018), pp. 150–65.
29.
48.

See F. Fukuyama, Trust: The Social Virtues and the Creation of Prosperity (New York: Free Press Books, 1995), pp. 43–

30. A great example of this phenomenon was the Pickup Artist (PUA) community in the mid-2000s, a group of socially
isolated, maladapted males who congregated to study social behaviors in order to be liked by women. The movement didn’t last
for more than a few years because, ultimately, these were childish and/or adolescent men who desired adult relationships, and no
amount of studying of or practice in social behaviors can produce a nontransactional, unconditional loving relationship with a
partner. See Mark Manson, Models: Attract Women Through Honesty (self-published, 2011).
31. Another way to think about this is the popular concept of “tough love.” You allow the child to experience pain because it is
by recognizing what still matters in the face of the pain that she achieves higher values and grows.
32. So far I’ve been ambiguous as to what I mean by “virtues.” This is partly because different philosophers and religions
embraced different virtues.
33.

Kant, Groundwork to the Metaphysics of Morals, pp. 9–20.

34. It’s important to note that Kant’s derivation of the Formula of Humanity was not based on moral intuition, nor on the
ancient concept of virtue—these are connections I am making.
35.

Kant, Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, pp. 40–42.

36. And here is where all three come together. The Formula of Humanity is the underlying principle of the virtues of honesty,
humility, bravery, and so on. These virtues define the highest stages of moral development (Kohlberg’s Stage 6; Kegan’s Stage
5).
37. The key word here is merely. Kant admits that it’s impossible never to use anyone as a means. If you treated everyone
unconditionally, you would be forced to treat yourself conditionally, and vice versa. But our actions toward ourselves and others
are multilayered. I can treat you as a means and an end at the same time. Maybe we’re working on a project together, and I
encourage you to work longer hours both because I think it will help you and because I believe it will help me. Kant says this is
fine. It’s only when I’m manipulating you purely for selfish reasons that I veer into being unethical.
38. Kant’s Formula of Humanity perfectly describes the principle of consent in sex and relationships. Not to seek explicit
consent, either from the other person or from yourself, is to treat one or both of you merely as a means in the pursuit of pleasure.
Explicit consent means actively treating the other person as an end and the sex as a means.
39. In other words, people who treat themselves as means will treat others as means. People who don’t respect themselves
won’t respect others. People who use and destroy themselves will use and destroy others.
40. Ideological extremists usually look to some great leader. Spiritual extremists tend to think that the apocalypse is coming and
that their savior will descend from heaven and pour them a coffee or something.
41. It is possible that all God Values that do not adhere to the Formula of Humanity end in paradox. If you are willing to treat
humanity as a means to gain greater freedom or equality, then you will inevitably destroy freedom and equality. More on this in
chapters 7 and 8.
42. By political extremism, I mean any political movement or party that is inherently antidemocratic and willing to subvert
democracy in favor of some ideological (or theological) religious agenda. For a discussion of these developments around the
world, see F. Fukuyama, Identity: The Demand for Dignity and the Politics of Resentment (New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux,
2018).
43.

Globalization, automation, and income inequality are also popular explanations with a lot of merit.

Chapter 7: Pain Is the Universal Constant
1. The study this section describes is David Levari et al., “Prevalence-Induced Concept Change in Human Judgment,” Science
29 (June 29, 2018): 1465–67.
2. Prevalence-induced concept change measures how our perceptions are altered by the prevalence of an expected experience. I
will be using “Blue Dot Effect” in this chapter a bit more widely to describe all shifting of perception based on expectations, not
just prevalence-induced expectations.
3. Whenever I see a news story about college kids freaking out over a campus speaker they don’t like and equating offensive
speech with trauma, I wonder what Witold Pilecki would have thought.
4.

Haidt and Lukianoff, The Coddling of the American Mind, pp. 23–24.

5. Andrew Fergus Wilson, “#whitegenocide, the Alt-right and Conspiracy Theory: How Secrecy and Suspicion Contributed to
the Mainstreaming of Hate,” Secrecy and Society, February 16, 2018.
6. Emile Durkheim, The Rules of Sociological Method and Selected Texts on Sociology and Its Method (New York: Free Press,
1982), p. 100.
7. Hara
Estroff
Marano,
“A
Nation
of
Wimps,”
https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/articles/200411/nation-wimps.

Psychology

Today,

November

1,

2004,

8. These three false Einstein quotes were gathered from M. Novak, “9 Albert Einstein Quotes That Are Totally Fake,”
Gizmodo, March 14, 2014, https://paleofuture.gizmodo.com/9-albert-einstein-quotes-that-are-totally-fake-1543806477.
9. P. D. Brickman and D. T. Campbell, “Hedonic Relativism and Planning the Good Society,” in M. H. Appley, ed. Adaptation
Level Theory: A Symposium (New York: Academic Press, 1971).
10. Recent research has challenged this and found that extremely traumatic events (the death of a child, for instance) can
permanently alter our “default level” of happiness. But the “baseline” happiness remains true through the vast majority of our
experiences. See B. Headey, “The Set Point Theory of Well-Being Has Serious Flaws: On the Eve of a Scientific Revolution?”
Social Indicators Research 97, no. 1 (2010): 7–21.
11. Harvard psychologist Daniel Gilbert refers to this as our “psychological immune system”: no matter what happens to us,
our emotions, memories, and beliefs acclimate and alter themselves to keep us at mostly-but-not-completely happy. See D.
Gilbert, Stumbling on Happiness (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2006), pp. 174–77.
12. By “we,” I am referring to our perceived experience. Basically, we don’t question our perceptions; we question the world—
when, in fact, it’s our perceptions that have altered themselves and the world has remained the same.
13. Throughout this chapter, I don’t use the Blue Dot Effect in the exact scientific way that the researchers studied prevalenceinduced concept change. I’m essentially using it as an analogy for and example of a larger psychological phenomenon that takes
place: our perceptions adapt to our preset emotional tendencies and expectations, not the other way around.

14.

See J. S. Mill, Utilitarianism, 2nd ed. (1863; repr. Indianapolis, IN: Hackett Classics, 2001).

15. P. Brickman, D. Coates, and R. Janoff-Bulman, “Lottery Winners and Accident Victims: Is Happiness Relative?” Journal
of Personality and Social Psychology 36, no. 8 (1978): 917–27.
16.

A. Schopenhauer, Essays and Aphorisms, trans. R. J. Hollingdale (New York: Penguin Classics, 1970), p. 41.

17. In case you ask me anyway, they did it because splitting the country in two is what produced a resolution to the Korean War
the previous decade. The communists got the north. The capitalists got the south. And everyone could go home and be happy.
They figured they could just skip the fighting part in Vietnam and go straight to the resolution. Spoiler alert: it didn’t work.
18.

Shout out to Boston University’s International Relations department. That one’s for you.

19.

David Halberstam, The Making of a Quagmire (New York: Random House, 1965), p. 211.

20. Zi Jun Toong, “Overthrown by the Press: The US Media’s Role in the Fall of Diem,” Australasian Journal of American
Studies 27 (July 2008): 56–72.
21. Malcolm Browne, the photographer who took the photo, later said, “I just kept shooting and shooting and shooting and that
protected me from the horror of the thing.”
22. In chapter 2, we talked about the Classic Assumption, and how it fails because it tries to suppress the Feeling Brain rather
than trying to align with it. Another way to think of the practice of antifragility is like the practice of aligning your Thinking
Brain with your Feeling Brain. By engaging with your pain, you can harness the Feeling Brain’s impulses and channel them into
some productive action or behavior. It’s no wonder that meditation has been scientifically shown to increase attention span and
self-awareness and reduce addiction, anxiety, and stress. Meditation is essentially a practice for managing the pain of life. See
Matthew
Thorpe,
“12
Science-Based
Benefits
of
Meditation.”
Healthline,
July
15,
2017,
https://www.healthline.com/nutrition/12-benefits-of-meditation.
23.

N. N. Taleb, Antifragile: Things That Gain from Disorder (New York: Random House, 2011).

24. This is actually an excellent litmus test for figuring out if you should be with someone: Do external stressors bring you
closer together or not? If not, then you have a problem.
25. While I’m ripping on meditation apps here, I do want to say that they’re good introductions to the practice. They’re just . . .
introductory.
26. I am the world’s biggest proponent of meditation who seemingly can never actually get himself to sit down and fucking
meditate. One good technique a friend of mine, who teaches meditation, taught me: when you’re struggling to get yourself to
meditate, simply find the number of minutes that’s not intimidating for you. Most people try to do ten or fifteen minutes. If that
seems daunting, agree with yourself to do five. If that seems daunting, lower it to three. If that seems daunting, lower it to one.
(Everyone can do one minute!) Basically, keep lowering the number of minutes in your “agreement” with your Feeling Brain
until it doesn’t feel scary anymore. Once again, this is simply your Thinking Brain negotiating with your Feeling Brain until
you’re able to align them and do something productive. This technique works wonders with other activities, by the way. Working
out, reading a book, cleaning the house, writing a book (cough)—in every case, just lower the expectation until it stops feeling
scary.
27.

See Ray Kurzweil, The Singularity Is Near: When Humans Transcend Biology (New York: Penguin Books, 2006).

28. Pinker makes the argument that the gains in physical health and safety more than compensate for any increases in anxiety
and stress. He also makes the argument that adulthood requires greater degrees of anxiety and stress due to increased
responsibilities. That’s probably true, but that doesn’t mean our anxiety and stress aren’t serious problems. See Pinker,
Enlightenment Now, pp. 288–89.
29. In my previous book, this is how I define a “good life.” Problems are inevitable. A good life is a life with good problems.
See M. Manson, The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck, pp. 26–36.
30. This is why addiction produces a downward spiral: numbing ourselves to pain numbs us to meaning and an ability to find
value in anything, thus generating greater pain, and thus inducing greater numbing. This continues until one reaches “rock
bottom,” a place of such immense pain that you can’t numb it anymore. The only way to relieve it is by engaging it and growing.
Chapter 8: The Feelings Economy
1. The story of Edward Bernays in this chapter comes from Adam Curtis’s wonderful documentary The Century of Self, BBC
Four, United Kingdom, 2002.
2. This is actually what the ego is, in the Freudian sense: our conscious stories about ourselves and our never-ending battle to
maintain and protect those stories. Having a strong ego is actually psychologically healthy. It makes you resilient and confident.
The term ego has since been butchered in self-help literature to essentially mean narcissism.
3. In the 1930s, I guess Bernays started to feel bad because he was actually the one who made Freud a global phenomenon.
Freud was broke, living in Switzerland, worried about the Nazis, and Bernays not only got Freud’s ideas published in the US, but
popularized them by having major magazines write articles about them. The fact that he is a household name today is largely due
to Bernays’s marketing tactics, which coincidentally, were based on his theories.

4.

See chapter 4, note 26.

5.

Examples include Johannes Gutenberg, Alan Turing, and Nikola Tesla, et al.

6. A. T. Jebb et al., “Happiness, Income Satiation and Turning Points Around the World,” Nature Human Behaviour 2, no. 1
(2018): 33.
7. M.
McMillen,
“Richer
Countries
Have
Higher
Depression
Rates,”
WebMD,
https://www.webmd.com/depression/news/20110726/richer-countries-have-higher-depression-rates.

July

26,

2011,

8. Here’s a fun theory about war and peace I came up with: the common assumption about war is that it starts because a group
of people are in such a painful situation that they have no option but to fight for their survival. Let’s call it the “Nothing to Lose”
theory of war. The Nothing to Lose theory of war is often framed in religious terms: the little guy fighting the corrupt powers for
his fair share, or the mighty free world uniting to vanquish the tyranny of communism. These narratives make for great action
movies. That’s because they’re easily digestible, value-laden stories that help unite the Feeling Brains of the masses. But, of
course, reality isn’t that simple.
People don’t just start revolutions because they are subjugated and oppressed. Every tyrant knows this. People who are kept
in perpetual pain come to accept the pain and see it as natural. Like an abused dog, they become placid and detached. It’s why
North Korea has continued as long as it has. It’s why the slaves in the United States rarely rose up in violent revolt.
Instead, allow me to suggest that people start revolutions because of pleasure. When life becomes comfortable, people’s
tolerance of discomfort and inconvenience lessens to the point where they see even the slightest of slights as unforgivable
travesties, and as a result, they lose their shit.
Political revolution is a privilege. When you’re starving and destitute, you’re focused on surviving. You don’t have the
energy or will to worry about the government. You’re just trying to make it to next week.
And if that sounds bananas, rest assured that I didn’t just make that part up. Political theorists call these “revolutions of rising
expectations.” In fact, it was the famed historian Alexis de Tocqueville who pointed out that most of the people who instigated
the French Revolution were not the poor masses “storming the Bastille,” but rather, people from wealthy counties and
neighborhoods. Similarly, the American Revolution was not instigated by downtrodden colonists, but the wealthy landowning
elites who believed it a violation of their liberty and dignity to see their taxes go up. (Some things never change.)
World War I, a war that involved thirty-two countries and killed seventeen million people, started because a rich Austrian
dude got shot in Serbia. At the time, the world was more globalized and economically prosperous than at any other time in
history. World leaders believed a massive global conflict to be impossible. No one would risk such a crazy venture when there
was so much to be lost.
But that’s exactly why they risked it.
Throughout the twentieth century, revolutionary wars sprung up across the world, from East Asia to the Middle East and
Africa to Latin America, not because people were oppressed or starving, but because their economies were growing. And with
their introduction to economic growth, people found that their desires outpaced the ability of the institutions to supply those
desires.
Here’s another way to look at it: when there’s way too much pain in a society (people are starving and dying and getting
diseases and stuff), people get desperate, have nothing to lose, say “Fuck it,” and start lobbing Molotov cocktails at old men in
suits. But when there’s not enough pain in a society, people start getting more and more upset by tinier and tinier infractions, to
the point where they’re willing to become violent over something as stupid as a quasi-offensive Halloween costume.
Just as an individual needs a Goldilocks amount of pain (not too much, but not too little, either) to grow and mature and
become an adult with a strong character, societies also need a Goldilocks amount of pain (too much, and you become Somalia;
too little, and you become that asshole who loaded up a bunch of trucks with automatic weapons and occupied a national park
because . . . freedom).
Let’s not forget the whole reason that deadly conflict exists in the first place: it gives us hope. Having a sworn mortal enemy
out there trying to kill you is the quickest way to find purpose and be present in your life. It drives us together into communities
like nothing else. It gives our religions a cosmic sense of meaning that cannot be acquired any other way.
It’s prosperity that causes crises in hope. It’s having six hundred channels and nothing to watch. It’s having fifteen matches
on Tinder but no one good to date. It’s having two thousand restaurants to choose from but feeling sick of all the same old food.
Prosperity makes meaning more difficult. It makes pain more acute. And ultimately, we need meaning way more than we need
prosperity, lest we come face-to-face with that wily Uncomfortable Truth again.
Financial markets spend most of their time expanding as more economic value is produced. But eventually, when investments
and valuations outrun actual output, when enough money gets caught up in pyramid schemes of diversion rather than innovation,
the financial market contracts, washing out all the “weak money,” knocking out the many businesses that were overvalued and
not actually adding value to society. Once the washout is complete, economic innovation and growth, now course-corrected, can
continue.
In the “Feelings Economy,” a similar expansion-contraction pattern happens. The long-term trend is toward pain reduction
through innovation. But in times of prosperity, people indulge more and more in diversions, demand fake freedoms, and become
more fragile. Eventually, they begin to become feverishly upset over things that merely a generation or two before would have
seemed frivolous. Pickets and protests erupt. People start sewing badges on their sleeves and wearing funny hats and adopting the
ideological religion du jour to justify their rage. Hope becomes more difficult to find amid the twinkling array of diversions. And
eventually, things escalate to the point where someone does something stupid and extreme, like shoot an archduke or ram a 747
into a building, and war erupts, killing thousands, if not millions.

And as the war rages, the real pain and deprivation set in. Economies collapse. People go hungry. Anarchy ensues. And the
worse the conditions get, the more antifragile people become. Before, with their satellite cable TV package and a dead-end job,
they didn’t know what to hope for. Now they know exactly what to hope for: peace, solace, respite. And their hope ends up
uniting what used to be a fractured, disparate population under the banner of one religion.
Once the war is over, with the immense destruction etched in their recent memory, people learn to hope for simpler things: a
stable family, a steady job, a child who is safe—like actually safe. Not this “Don’t let them play outside by themselves” safe.
Hope is reset throughout society. And a period of peace and prosperity resumes. (Sort of.)
There’s one last component to this harebrained theory that I still haven’t spoken about: inequality. During periods of
prosperity, more and more economic growth is driven by diversions. And because diversions scale so easily—after all, who
doesn’t want to post selfies on Instagram?—wealth becomes extremely concentrated in fewer hands. This growing wealth
disparity then feeds the “revolution of rising expectations.” Everyone feels that their life is supposed to be better, yet it’s not what
they expected; it’s not as pain-free as they had hoped. Therefore, they line up on their ideological sides—master moralists over
here, slave moralists over there—and they fight.
And during the fighting and destruction, no one has time for diversions. In fact, diversions can get you killed.
No, in war, everything is about gaining an advantage. And to gain an advantage, you must invest in innovations. Military
research has driven most of the greatest innovation in human history. War not only restores balance to people’s hope and
fragility, but it is, sadly, also the only thing that dependably resets wealth inequality. It’s another boom/bust cycle. Although, this
time, instead of it being financial markets or a population’s fragility, it’s political power.
The sad fact is that war is not only an inherent part of human existence; it’s likely a necessary by-product of our existence as
well. It’s not an evolutionary bug; it’s a feature. Of the past 3,400 years, humans have been at peace for a total of 268 of them.
That’s not even 8 percent of recorded history.
War is the natural fallout from our erroneous hopes. It’s where our religions get tested for their solidarity and usefulness. It’s
what promotes innovation and motivates us to work and evolve.
And it is the only thing that is consistently able to get people to get over their own happiness, to develop true virtue of
character, to develop an ability to withstand pain, and to fight and live for something other than themselves.
This is likely why the ancient Greeks and Romans believed virtue necessitated war. There was an inherent humility and
bravery required not just to succeed in war, but also to be a good person. The strife brings out the best in us. And, in a sense,
virtue and death always go hand in hand.
9. The “commercial age” is just something I made up, if I’m being honest. Really, what it refers to, I suppose, is the
postindustrial age, the age when commerce began to expand into producing unnecessary goods. I think of it as similar to what
Ron Davison calls the “Third Economy.” See R. Davison, The Fourth Economy: Inventing Western Civilization, self-published
ebook, 2011.
10. This is a well-documented issue. See Carol Cadwalladr, “Google, Democracy, and the Truth About Internet Search,”
Guardian, December 4, 2016, https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2016/dec/04/google-democracy-truth-internet-searchfacebook.
11. Not only is this sort of surveillance creepy, but it’s a perfect illustration of a tech company treating its customers as mere
means rather than ends. In fact, I would argue that the feeling of creepiness is itself the sensation of being treated as merely a
means. Even though we “opt in” to these services that harvest our data, we’re not fully knowledgeable and/or aware of this;
therefore, it feels as though we haven’t consented. This feeling of nonconsent is what makes us feel disrespected and treated as a
means, and is therefore why we get upset. See K. Tiffany, “The Perennial Debate About Whether Your Phone Is Secretly
Listening to You, Explained,” Vox, December 28, 2018, https://www.vox.com/the-goods/2018/12/28/18158968/facebookmicrophone-tapping-recording-instagram-ads.
12.

You know, because torture doesn’t scale well.

13.

Barry Schwartz, The Paradox of Choice: Why More is Less (New York: Ecco, 2004).

14. There’s a lot of data that shows that this is incredibly effective. It’s another example of working with your Feeling Brain (in
this case, scaring it into doing the right thing) rather than against it. This is so effective that the researchers who originally studied
it created a website called stickk.com that allows people to set up these agreements with their friends. I actually used it to hit a
deadline with my last book (and it worked!).
15. He ended up losing to the chess grandmaster because, as it turns out, chess has hundreds of millions of potential moves, and
it’s impossible to map out an entire game from beginning to end. I’m citing no source because this hack job doesn’t deserve more
attention.
16.

Robert Putnam, Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community (New York: Simon and Schuster, 2001).

17. F. Sarracino, “Social Capital and Subjective Well-being Trends: Comparing 11 Western European Countries,” Journal of
Socio-Economics 39 (2010): 482–517.
18.

Putnam, Bowling Alone, pp. 134–43.

19.

Ibid., pp. 189–246.

20.

Ibid., pp. 402–14.

21. This is a more ethical and effective way at looking at liberty. Take, for instance, the controversies in Europe over whether
Muslim women can wear hijabs. A fake-freedom perspective would say that women should be liberated not to wear a hijab—i.e.,
they should be given more opportunity for pleasure. This is treating the women as a means to some ideological end. It is saying
that they don’t have the right to choose their own sacrifices and commitments, that they must subsume their beliefs and decisions
to some broader ideological religion about freedom. This is a perfect example of how treating people as a means to the end of
freedom undermines freedom. Real freedom means you allow the women to choose what they wish to sacrifice in their lives, thus
allowing them to wear the hijabs. For a summary of the controversy, see “The Islamic Veil Across Europe,” BBC News, May 31,
2018, https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-13038095.
22. Unfortunately, with cyber warfare, fake news, and election meddling possible through global social media platforms, this is
truer than ever before. The “soft power” of the internet has allowed savvy governments (Russia, China) to effectively influence
the populations of rival countries rather than having to infiltrate the countries physically. It only makes sense that in the
information age, the world’s greatest struggles would be over information.
23. Alfred N. Whitehead, Process and Reality: Corrected Edition, ed. David Ray Griffin and Donald W. Sherburne (New York:
The Free Press, 1978), p. 39.
24.

Plato, Phaedrus, 253d.

25.

Plato, The Republic, 427e and 435b.

26. Plato’s “theory of forms” appears in a number of dialogues, but the most famous example is his cave metaphor, which
occurs in The Republic, 514a–20a.
27. It’s worth noting that the ancient definition of democracy differs from the modern one. In ancient times, democracy meant
that the population voted on everything and there were few to no representatives. What we refer to today as democracy is
technically a “republic,” because we have elected representatives who make decisions and determine policy. That being said, I
don’t think this distinction changes the validity of the arguments of this section at all. A decline in maturity in the population will
be reflected in worse elected representatives, who were Plato’s “demagogues,” politicians who promise everything and deliver
nothing. These demagogues then dismantle the democratic system while the people cheer its dismantling, as they come to see the
system itself, rather than the poorly selected leadership, as the problem.
28.

Plato, The Republic, 564a–66a.

29.

Ibid., 566d–69c.

30. Democracies go to war less often than autocracies, affirming Kant’s “perpetual peace” hypothesis. See J. Oneal and B.
Russett, “The Kantian Peace: The Pacific Benefits of Democracy, Interdependence, and International Organizations, 1885–
1992,” World Politics 52, no. 1 (1999): 1–37. Democracies promote economic growth. See Jose Tavares and Romain Wacziarg,
“How Democracy Affects Growth,” European Economic Review 45, no. 8 (2000): 1341–78. People in democracies live longer.
See Timothy Besley and Kudamatsu Masayuki, “Health and Democracy,” American Economic Review 96, no. 2 (2006): 313–18.
31. Interestingly, low-trust societies rely more on “family values” than do other cultures. One way to look at it is that the less
hope people derive from their national religions, the more they look for hope in their familial religions, and vice versa. See
Fukuyama, Trust, pp. 61–68.
32. This is an explanation of the paradox of progress that I haven’t really dived into: that with every improvement of life, we
have more to lose and less to gain than before. Because hope relies on the perception of future value, the better things become in
the present, the more difficult it can be to envision that future and the easier to envision greater losses in the future. In other
words, the internet is great, but it also introduces all sorts of new ways for society to collapse and everything to go to hell. So,
paradoxically, each technological improvement also introduces novel ways for us to all kill one another, and ourselves.
Chapter 9: The Final Religion
1. In 1950, Alan Turing, the father of computer science, created the first chess algorithm.
2. It turns out that it is unbelievably difficult to program “Feeling Brain” functionality into a computer, while Thinking Brain
functionality has long surpassed human capacity. That’s because our Feeling Brains operate using our entire neural networks,
whereas our Thinking Brains just do raw computations. I’m probably butchering this explanation, but it’s an interesting twist on
the development of AI—just as we perpetually struggle to understand our own Feeling Brains, we also struggle to create them in
machines.
3. In the years that followed Kasparov’s initial defeat, both he and Vladimir Kramnik battled a number of top chess programs to
draws. But by 2005, chess programs Fritz, Hydra, and Junior shellacked top grandmasters in matches, sometimes not even
dropping a single game. By 2007, human grandmasters were given move advantages, pawn advantages, and choices of openings
—and still lost. By 2009, everybody just stopped trying. No point.
4. This is true, although not literally. In 2009, the mobile chess software Pocket Fritz beat Deep Blue in a ten-game match. Fritz
won despite having less computing—meaning it’s superior software, not that it’s more powerful.
5. Michael Klein, “Google’s AlphaZero Destroys Stockfish in 100-game Match,” Chess.com, December 7, 2017,
https://www.chess.com/news/view/google-s-alphazero-destroys-stockfish-in-100-game-match.

6. Shogi is considered more complex because you are able to take control of your opponent’s pieces, leading to far more
variations than even with chess.
7. For a discussion of the potential mass unemployment caused by AI and machine automation, check out the excellent E.
Brynjolfsson and A. McAfee, Race Against the Machine: How the Digital Revolution Is Accelerating Innovation, Driving
Productivity, and Irreversibly Transforming Employment and the Economy (Lexington, MA: Digital Frontier Press, 2011).
8. K. Beck, “A Bot Wrote a New Harry Potter Chapter and It’s Delightfully Hilarious,” Mashable, December 17, 2017,
https://mashable.com/2017/12/12/harry-potter-predictive-chapter.
9. J. Miley, “11 Times AI Beat Humans at Games, Art, Law, and Everything in Between,” Interesting Engineering, March 12,
2018, https://interestingengineering.com/11-times-ai-beat-humans-at-games-art-law-and-everything-in-between.
10.

Much in the same way that today it’s almost impossible to imagine life without Google, email, or cell phones.

11. Evolutionarily speaking, humans gave up a lot to make their big brains possible. Compared to other apes, and especially
mammals, we’re slow, weak, and fragile and have poor sensory perceptions. But most of what we lack in physical capabilities
was given up to allow for the brain’s greater use of energy and longer gestation period. So, really, things worked out in the end.
12.

See D. Deutsch, The Beginning of Infinity: Explanations that Transform the World (New York: Penguin Books, 2011).

13.

Well, technically, most of these didn’t exist until we came along, but I suppose that’s partly the point.

14.

Haidt, The Righteous Mind, pp. 32–34.

15. The self-hatred is a reference to the inherent guilt that comes with existence, discussed in chapter 4. The self-destruction is,
well, self-evident.
16. Such outlandish scenarios are actually quite serious and covered well in Nick Bostrom’s Superintelligence: Paths, Dangers,
Strategies (New York: Oxford University Press, 2014).
17. Michal Kranz, “5 Genocides That Are Still Going on Today,” Business Insider, November 22, 2017,
https://www.businessinsider.com/genocides-still-going-on-today-bosnia-2017-11.
18.

“Hunger Statistics,” Food Aid Foundation, https://www.foodaidfoundation.org/world-hunger-statistics.html.

19.

Calculated by author based on statistics from National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, https://ncadv.org/statistics.

About the Author

MARK MANSON is the New York Times and international bestselling author of The Subtle Art
of Not Giving a Fuck (with over five million in sales in the United States alone). His blog,
MarkManson.net, attracts more than two million readers per month. Manson lives in New York
City.
Discover great authors, exclusive offers, and more at hc.com.

Also by Mark Manson

The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck

Copyright

EVERYTHING IS FUCKED. Copyright © 2019 by Mark Manson. All rights reserved under International and Pan-American
Copyright Conventions. By payment of the required fees, you have been granted the nonexclusive, nontransferable right to access
and read the text of this e-book on-screen. No part of this text may be reproduced, transmitted, downloaded, decompiled, reverseengineered, or stored in or introduced into any information storage and retrieval system, in any form or by any means, whether
electronic or mechanical, now known or hereafter invented, without the express written permission of HarperCollins e-books.
Cover design by Sarah Bibel
Ink art by pio3 | Shutterstock
FIRST EDITION
Digital Edition MAY 2019 ISBN: 978-0-06-288847-1
Version 04302019
Print ISBN: 978-0-06-288843-3
ISBN 978-0-06-288846-4 (International Edition)

About the Publisher

Australia
HarperCollins Publishers Australia Pty. Ltd.
Level 13, 201 Elizabeth Street
Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia
www.harpercollins.com.au
Canada
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd
Bay Adelaide Centre, East Tower
22 Adelaide Street West, 41st Floor
Toronto, Ontario, Canada
M5H 4E3
www.harpercollins.ca
India
HarperCollins India
A 75, Sector 57
Noida
Uttar Pradesh 201 301
www.harpercollins.co.in
New Zealand
HarperCollins Publishers New Zealand
Unit D1, 63 Apollo Drive
Rosedale 0632
Auckland, New Zealand
www.harpercollins.co.nz
United Kingdom
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd.
1 London Bridge Street
London SE1 9GF, UK
www.harpercollins.co.uk
United States
HarperCollins Publishers Inc.
195 Broadway
New York, NY 10007

www.harpercollins.com

* Terms and conditions may apply.

