###This is a text file with all the things I created!

These are the funny tweets that I appreciated the most:
"All of us here today are very cool about it!"
"Aristotle The greatest ice rink in the House."
"The new Ebola screenings go into effect for people that LOVE OUR COUNTRY."
"The NFL players continue to attack like Obama will not be safe and families
of the NFL’s Oakland Raiders stands for opposite!"
"It was my great honor to welcome President Moon of South Carolina."


These are my favorite Tao proverbs:

"Fishes should not be employed to hurt men."
"The movement of the Tao!"
"The rhinoceros finds no place of what that life depends on."


These are my fav combos:
"ObamaCare is torturing the American people a hundredfold."

Favorite Botnik Creations:
from Buzzfeed quiz keyboard: "Guess which bag would be a pastry 
and we'll tell you which fictional wedding day food you'll wear"

from harry potter narration:
"Harry had the feeling his eyes were popping at him in surprise.  
His wand pointing dramatically at her as she passed the slytherin dormitory. "

from christmas songs:
"Christmas time again 
heal the world let them know 
it 's christmas time again "

"The mistletoe let me bang merry merry merry merry
merry merry merry merry merry merry merry 
merry merry merry merry merry merry merry merry...."


MY TEXT GENERATOR:
I used the Rosetta Code text generator and I used the functional one. 
I increased the word sample to 500 words and I used the text from 
the first twilight book and the second twilight book and it 
makes up fairly good imitations of the writing style.

A sample of the text generator I used:

The corner of his mouth turned down in disapproval. 
"Mountain lion."
"Ah," 
I said in a suspiciously soothing voice. 
"You have nothing to worry about," he promised, stroking my cheek
with his lips. 
"That doesn't mean anything to me," he breathed against my
cheek. 
I hoped that young Jacob was as yet inexperienced around girls, so
that he would have been as close to the precipice. 
I couldn't tell if he was trying to distract him. 
It was useless, though. I didn't budge him an inch. 
I dropped my hand and held it open. 
"You leaving?" I hesitated, my hand on the small of her back, 
an unconscious gesture.
"Jacob has information for us." Paul looked unsurprised. Jacob must have changed his
mind, just like I'd feared. He was going to have to face them now. I sat
up, pulling the quilt around me. "Because I won't go." "Now just one
minute, young lady " "Look, Dad, I accept complete responsibility for my
actions, and you have the stomach flu?" I asked, confused. "No. This is
something else." "What's wrong with her?" Charlie demanded. "She's just
very tired, Charlie," Edward assured him quietly. "Please let her rest."
"Don't tell me you're listening to Billy's superstitious nonsense now," I
said quickly. He didn't look away from him, glaring. "You wouldn't." I
didn't see you behind the wheel, Jake," he said disapprovingly. "We get
permits early on the razz," Jacob said while I unlocked the door. It was
the first sound, besides the purr of the car, amazed, yet again, by how
graceful he was. I locked my arms around him instinctively, wrapping them
around his waist and erase the expression of misery on his face. "Yes," I
croaked softly. "Distract me, please," he ordered. "I'm sorry, what?" "I
said, Mike kissed me! Can you believe it?" "That's great, Mom," I said in a
low, arched tunnel. Long trails of ebony moisture seeped down the gray
stones, like they were speeding up, or getting any closer to me. Breathe, I
had to do something, anything that might save us, getting as much
information as possible. So I kissed him back, my heart pounding out a
jagged, disjointed rhythm while my breathing turned to panting and my
fingers moved greedily to his face. "How was Port Angeles ?" "It was…"
There was no need for a graduation deadline, is there?" His jaw tightened.
"That would be great!" "If you make a list, we can go shop for parts," I
suggested. Jacob's face fell a little. "I'm still not sure I should let you
pay for everything." I shook my head back and forth in denial, trying to
clear it at the same time. He had been listening, it was obvious. "Hi." I
couldn't think of a reason," he said in a low voice, looking down at the
Cullen family's table. If he was glaring at me, I would never endanger her
that way.


I also wanted to try one with Taylor with lyrics so in the
"taylor_lyrics.txt" file I took lyrics from her album 
"folklore" and tried to do some things with that... it was entertaining.

